User:   jack
Read:   0
Unread: 7
Time:   Sun, 10 Aug 1997 20:10:31 -0700
Plan:
Updated - 8/10/97 - 6:57pm -----------------------------------------

First, a small GL thing.  It's slower because there's less status 
bar, thus more screen area to draw.  Dammit.  Watch what you wish 
for, it may come true :)  And combat is still MUCH faster.

The QW/QSpy/id website release went really well.  The Quake well was
getting a little dry lately, hopefully this helped some.

Also, prepare for a damned cool update by me on Monday or Tuesday...

Updated - 8/8/97 - 7:45am (yes, **AM**) ----------------------------

Airplanes suck my ass.

Updated - 8/3/97 - 6:46pm ------------------------------------------

I just need to vent about something, and not one of the trendy 
things to bitch about either.  It's about playing in peace.  It 
seems that every time I join a server now, people take that as an 
opportunity to ask me when QSpy will be out or when QW will be out 
or if I've added something new to GLQW.  I really don't understand 
it.  I'm there to play and enjoy myself like the next guy, and 
people are actually saying "Well?!" when I ignore their first 
question, and say "hi" to a friend of mine who just said hi to me.
Please stop this.  I'm sure I speak for all that "celebs" in this
community when I ask to please stop this now.  It's one thing to say
hey or something, it's a complete other thing to do shit like "Will
I be able to run GLQW on my Verite?" or "Are you THE morbid?" or
"Can I beta QSpy/QuakeWorld?" or something like that.  Questions 
belong in email, not when I happen to pop into the server and it's 
convenient for YOU to ask me questions.  I'm right there, why not? 
Because it's rude as hell, that's why.

While I'm on my bitch spree, something else I'd appreciate.  Please 
don't email me asking for betas of QW and QSpy.  We have plenty of 
testers, whether or not you're a "professional" or not makes no 
difference to me.  That point is, I feel like a shithead replying to
people having to say no.  I don't like saying no, but I have to, and
it makes ME feel like the shithead because I know they did nothing
wrong and they are just curious and honestly want to be helpful.
AND *please* for the love of god, don't add me to your ICQ unless I
know you or you REALLY have a valid reason.  One person requested 
THREE times in a row to be on my list, after I refused him telling 
him I only use ICQ for personal matters, and he was the first person 
I've moved to my ignore list.  Sigh.

Updated - 8/1/97 - 3:31am ------------------------------------------

Just listened to QuakeCast and noticed the INTENSE confusion with
NOSKINS on there.  NOSKINS 2 is in the beta of QuakeWorld right now,
but here's the description of the NOSKINS settings:
NOSKINS 0 - Downloads and uses skins.
NOSKINS 1 - Does not download and does not use skins.
NOSKINS 2 - Does not download new skins, but will use the skins you
already have.
Note that NOSKINS 2 in the current release does the same thing as 
NOSKINS 1, and the next version of QSpy will have the new NOSKINS 
options for the new (now in beta) client.  Hope this clears stuff 
up.  :)

Updated - 7/30/97 - 4:23pm -----------------------------------------

Man, I sure am updating often.  Just wanted to say a few things...  
For one, got a neat effect in where rocket trails actually "fade"
off now in GL.  Also, I'm now uploading partial lightmaps, so that 
should help dynamic light performance a little.  Which also leads to 
the fact that I'm now working on the GL miniport.  Why?  Well, so 
when I want a little more of GL implemented, I can just switch over 
to the GL project and add it without bugging the 3dfx guys (seems 
TexSubImage2D didn't support GL_LUMINANCE, which is what Quake uses 
for lightmaps.  Didn't support glColor4ub, which is what I wanted 
for the particles.  Also, I have to thank Gary McTaggart over at 
3DFX for giving me pointers on the 8-bit stuff (and telling me it 
even existed!) and for tossing me the GL miniport codebase.  This 
guy does (and did) a lot more for GLQuake than most people know, and
I thought he should be acknowledged.

Updated - 7/29/97 - 1:45am -----------------------------------------

Redwood is so funny :) The reason for the sky slowdown is because 
places with sky are large areas, and texture thrashing is going on.
The 8-bit texture code in the next versions of GLQuake and GLQW 
should help this out a lot, but will not totally eliminate it.  
Also, as Redwood reported, I have added floodprots into the server.
Now, in case anyone was wondering, it's very configurable.  You can
specify the # of messages/# of seconds before someone is locked out,
and you can then specify the # of seconds they are silenced.  Also,
the first message they get is configurable, which is why "herd" was
spelled wrong in Red's screenshot :)

Also, get the GLIDE 2.4 runtimes.  They fixed the GL alt-tab bug!
Kudos to 3DFX!

Updated - 7/26/97 - 10:22pm ----------------------------------------

This is gonna be a monster of an update.

I made a QuakeCon update.  It's gone now :)

For one, looks like QSpy 5.3 is nearing completion, and it should 
be pretty fun.  This is been a major bug fix release, as well as a 
couple new features.  QSpy 5.4 should be big-time super-keen cool.

QuakeWorld is where a lot of my time has been poured into lately.  I
am now uploading textures to the card in 8-bit format, so the card 
renders them *better* and takes less texture RAM.  Combat will be 
usable on GLQW, and yes, the 8-bit uploads will make it to GLQuake 
too.  The HUD, though, will not, because GLQuake is "classic" Quake,
and that's that.  Also, the physics are fixed and Zoid got in 
individual maxspeeds for players, so the TF scout will have an 
advantage again.  There's some other stuff I'm thinking about doing
that could surprise people.  Stay tuned.

Also, surprise does not mean that if you email me asking for what 
the surprise is, that I'll tell you.  It means that I'm not sure 
how feasible it is right now and don't want to tell anyone for fear 
of embarrassing myself. :)

I enjoyed QuakeCon plenty, BTW, as well as mine and Zoid's QW 
presentation/seminar thing.  Zoid did most of the talking, it's 
almost like he prepared or something :)  But it was still really 
cool.

Now, a few words on the Direct3D stuff.  Here's the skinny.  The 
reason GL is preferred to D3D is not so much speed now except for 
programmibility.  For gaming purposes, COM is a bad, bulky model.  
Plus, OGL is a consortium effort (which Microsoft is a part of), 
whereas D3D is a Microsoft effort.  Now, you ask, what does poor
little Microsoft have to GAIN from this?  Well, many things.  For 
one, it puts people's trust towards Microsoft.  Microsoft made D3D,
games use D3D, it must be good.  Two, it puts people to Windows. 
OGL is an easily portable extension, D3D is not.  Three, it makes 
people use Microsoft development tools.  Now you may think "Whoa, 
wait a minute buster, MS puts out the SDK's at the same time."  Yes,
they do.  So install the SDK, go into Borland C++ and move over a
DirectX member/class and try for context sensitive help on it.  
Chances are, it's not there or it's an older version than the one in
VC++.  Microsoft did the same thing with OLE.  You needed OLE for 
Win95 compatibility, so they released the specs, then out came VC++
4.0 with 32-bit OLE inside MFC wrappers all built in and pretty.  
Microsoft's mantra has always been something like, "We want every 
computer to run Microsoft software."  They always deny that it's 
*exclusively* Microsoft software, but if you don't own all the 
software, how can you guarantee that users will run yours?  This 
quote from GameSpot sums it up VERY nicely.  Notice the second to 
last word:

Bachus spoke to Carmack a few days ago and Bachus says, "DirectX has 
no conflict at all with OpenGL, and we'd be happy to help Carmack 
tune his software for any Microsoft API."

Sickening.

Updated - 7/9/97 - 4:22pm ------------------------------------------

Well, time for my monthly .plan update :)

First things first, to the people that say Quake (and thus 
QuakeWorld) ONLY use the FPU for "clever string optimizations," that
is one of the silliest things I've ever heard.  Try again, guys.

Also, the QSpy 5.3 beta is going well.  We expect a release in a 
couple weeks, though we haven't gotten all too much feedback from
the regged users!  Mostly, the stuff we've put in are fixes to chat,
general fixes, the new UI, (try Ctrl-clicking on the masters, it's 
fun) and some traceroute and hopcount stuff.  Pretty cool.  5.4 is
where the chat will REALLY shine though.  We have some BIG plans
in mind for that, as well as the auto mod downloading.  Oh, context
sensitive help should be in the next beta.

The next release of QuakeWorld will rock.  Me and Zoid are working 
on some pretty cool stuff that should tide people over till Quake 2 
comes out.  We've all used the same interface for a year, may as 
well change it around some.  We've fixed the hat and dinput problems
people have been adding, and I'm considering adding six-axis support
for the SpaceOrb.  We're also working on the GL lag problems, 
big-time.  We should have screenshots up pretty soon on that on
http://www.quakeworld.net.

Also, the QSpy chat has now merged with Disruptor's new 3DNet, and 
that's going great as well.  There are the occasional netsplits, but
as the network gets bigger, it should even out better.

Also, it really makes me feel bad to see id have to defend its honor 
because of what some peon webmaster says.  Sigh.

By the way, I'll be at QuakeCon 97, which will be a blast.  Can't 
wait to see everyone I met at e3 again and meet new people as well.  
And maybe this time I'll have someone ELSE take pictures of Gateway 
drunk, since the pictures I took on his roll of film "didn't come out 
right." :-)

--------------------------------------------------------------------

I have an interview with Gamecenter:
http://www.gamecenter.com/News/Item/0,3,411,00.html

I've also been on QuakeCast twice (http://www.pseudo.com).
Listen to it!

Ummmm...  Don't eat yellow snow...  And please register QSpy.  

I think Pauly's sitcom is gone!  w00!

My email's jack@quakespy.com, if you want to drop a note.