User:   jack
Read:   0
Unread: 158
Time:   Mon, 23 Nov 1998 21:23:55 -0800
Plan:
11/23/98 - 11:59pm (est, for anyone who cares)

(3 part update...  Mad props, and a GSpy/Half Life update)

First off, congrats to the Florida State Seminoles, who beat down the
Florida Gators 23-12 on Saturday (a game which I happily attended :) ).
Kick ASS!  A few former co workers (who happen to be Gators) will be getting
some goodies from the game :)  I'll also be posting up some pictures as soon
as I get back to Dallas and get my computer up to speed.

Also, *big* congrats to 3Dfx on getting the Voodoo 3 to Comdex.  Last I knew
it was getting tight, but they really brought it up and got it out there
pretty flawlessly and surprised a load of people.

For anyone who's wondering, Tim's plan update may have sounded a bit
bitter...  Basically, we (Valve and Spy Software) just figured out wtf was
going on tonite or so :) In a nutshell, everyone took vacations, and not
everyone knew :)  After Half Life came out, we had gotten written about Half
Life support from the Valve guys.  However, at that same time, me and Tim
were going on separate vacations leaving Joe to hold the fort, and I was in
the process of moving (TEMPORARILY) to Dallas right before that.  By the
time we had tried to get back to the Valve guys about the specifics of
support, THEY had gone on vacation.  Joe, Tim, and Mark had come to the
conclusion we were being ignored, I knew something was awry but couldn't
write email (and was busy drinking in Tallahassee) and the Valve guys were
doing god knows what in Mexico :).  So there's your mixup.  Fun huh?

If you're wondering why we didn't just reverse engineer support in there,
it's because a) none of us had picked up the game yet, b) Tim was away, and
c) We don't want to make guesses that make us release incremental updates
four days in a row.  GameSpy is used by millions of people, and we're really
trying to put out solid product every release now.

As for how GameSpy got on the HL box, hell if we know :-)