Who did you just finger?: Charlie Wiederhold
Nick: Wieder
Email: wieder@ritual.com
What do I do?: Level/Game Design

========================================================================
Disclaimer!!!
The views expressed here are solely that of my own and in no way reflect
the official position of Ritual Entertainment. Simply put: Don't mind me
========================================================================

12-1-97
===============

Work Stuff 
----------
Not too much I can really talk about. Planning and stuff for the future 
projects that were mentioned in the press release about Patrick and I. It is 
so great to work for a company that allows creative people like us to put in 
as much input as we like. When you have an active part in a design I think 
you take that much more pride in what you are doing.

I'd like to make a quake map that I could release where I actually finish it
to completion... but it seems like that wouldn't be needed. The dudes at Ion
have already provided us with some really cool stuff to play! Plus, any spare
time I have had recnetly I wind up just playing Team Fortress. Scouts rule, 
especially over a T1. ;)

Duke Caribbean: Life's a Beach should be coming out pretty darn soon. I think
they are pretty close to duplication. When it comes out I'd love to hear what
you think of it. Hate it, love it, whatever. The feedback is extremely
helpful. Wanton Destruction should be out sometime later too... when that
comes out I'd love to hear feedback on that too.

Other
-----
Well, I hope everyone had a good Thanksgiving holiday. I certainly did. Got
to visit a few friends that I hadn't seen in a long time. Didn't get to see
a couple that I had hoped to see... but oh well... Christmas break is coming
up soon for everyone in college.

I watched Alien 4 and Anastasia over the break... and I really really enjoyed
Anastasia. You could tell that Fox still has some kinks to work out in their
animation area, but overall it was excellent. The biggest thing I noticed was
the completely astounding character realism. I mean... just look at the way
they stand and hold themselves, the faces they make, everything about them.
Aside from the fact that they were drawn I couldn't tell the difference
between them and a real actor... in fact they were better than a lot of
actors! I also really enjoyed the part where they first arrived in Paris and
the entire background was like a painting. Very nice artistic touch. Disney
finally has a challenger, and I'm quite happy. The Little Mermaid is still my
favorite cartoon though.

"Wow... I'm telling you... Wow!" :)

Alien 4... got some cool insiration for some level architechture and items.
I'll leave it at that. I do give it credit though, I enjoyed the movie... it 
is just hard to live up to the effect of 1 and 2. Kinda like pretty much any
game that comes after Doom. Do I think any FPS game will ever be able to have
the same overall effect that Doom had? No way. Not until a major breakthrough
in immersion is achieved... such as real VR. Not this crappy helmet stuff,
but where you actually have some sort of electrical hookup feeding input into
your mind telling you that things are "really" happening. Then you will really
be able to bring out the fear in people... down to their core. However, I fear
the day that we can do that... as it gives way too much control. If you get
unwillingly put into one of those things, someone could literally put you
through a lifetime of hell and you would not know it wasn't real. Then again,
I can think of a few situations I wouldn'd mind being in for a lifetime. ;)

Oh, and despite losing to the dreaded Aggies last Friday, UT Longhorns still
rule. Now... time to go watch my San Francisco 49ers roll over the rest of
the NFL. Living in Dallas/Ft. Worth during high school and being a 49er fan
was hell during the years Dallas won the superbowl. Hell, it was pretty bad
when San Francisco won. I used to work at Winn Dixie as a sacker, checker,
stocker, etc... and if I showed any support for San Francisco the management
would gripe at me and tell me that I'm offending customers. Awww... poor
babies. So, I had to wear a little "Go Dallas!" button sometimes back then.
Yuck. The only thing I ever saw it do when I showed support was provide for
some interesting conversations of playful taunting with the customers. Which
made for both a more enjoyable experience for the customer and I. Oh well,
I guess that one upset customer was more important than the 50 or so I saw
that left with a smile on their face. :/

Been listening to Manheim Steamroller... the entire Fresh Aire series a lot
recently. Really good music to work to. That's about all that has been going
on over here.

Ohhh... I've gotten a few emails from people asking about the old Wheel of
Time mailing list I used to run. Well, I'm sad to say that my absolutely
unbelievable programming skills failed me and my sorting program decided to
mess up the list and deleted everyone from the file except one compuserve guy.
I know I know... why didn't I make backups? Well... the program was supposed
to do that, it simply copied the file to a backup without ever changing the
contents. So, why was it empty? I dunno, I suck. Anyways, Telamon from The 
Waygate is supposed to start it up again, but he hasn't yet. He's been pretty 
busy. Go visit him at http://www.aparker.org/wulf/waygate and pressure him 
some. ;) I planned to continue providing some of the same commentary that I 
did in the old list in this new one, but can't do that till he restarts it. :)

There was something else I was going to say but got ICQed so I forgot.

Wieder rolls on outta here...