User:   greenmarine
Read:   0
Unread: 0
Time:   Thu, 29 Oct 1998 10:03:08 -0800
Plan:
October 29, 1998

If you played Unreal Deathmach before and didn't like it, try it again.  You
REALLY owe it to yourself to check it out with the 218 patch.  Our netplay
quality is now at record levels and its just plain fun.  Its like a
different game!  You can get the new patch at http://unreal.epicgames.com/.
Check it out!  We'll soon have a patch out with a lot of bugfixes and
answers to interface issues that players have been raising.

I know a lot of people stopped playing Unreal because they thought that
while the single player was great, the multiplayer sucked.  Yeah, it did
suck.  TRY IT AGAIN.  You'll like it, trust me.  Netplay has greatly
improved and we are now moving to high level changes to network efficiency
(answer the question What should be sent instead of How to send it.)

Tim will be working on a few bugfixes and tweaks to the netplay code and
also working on the commercial version of UnrealED in the coming weeks.
Steve and I are working on bugfixes all across the board, as well as working
on the as of yet top secret add-on.  The next patch (219) will answer issues
raised with 218.  The patch after that (220) will most likely contain a lot
of new fixes and things after Steve and I integrate our code with Tim's
central codebase.

Check Unreal multiplayer out.  Epic is dedicated to bringing top notch
deathmatch to our players and the patch has really gone a long way towards
that goal.

---
What follows is a plan update I wrote four days ago, but lost
because the PlanetQuake .plan interface is a little funky. :-)
I have since beaten Metal Gear Solid.  The game has like three
endings and a second quest!!
---

October 25, 1998

"Now! Make me feel it, make me feel alive again!"

Metal Gear Solid is the second greatest game ever made.  Absolutely amazing
game.  Incredible.  Its a lesson.  Any person in the games industry should
play this game to its completion.

"His dreams of global domination did not interest me...I just needed an
excuse to kill as many people as I could."

Every character has a unique personality.  You feel like you know the people
as you interact with them.  The story is excellent.  The bad guys are
excellent.  The good guys are excellent.  The good guys who might be bad
guys or not are excellent.  The effects are excellent.
The music and sound is excellent.

"She's amazing isn't she?  Once she's picked a target, she never stops
thinking about them.  Sometimes, she falls in love with them before she
kills them."

When I had to submit to Revolver Ocelot's torture I was like "Fuck! Fuck!"
I can't believe I lost her!  I felt like shit that I had to submit to
torture and had to sacrifice Meryls life.  That's a great game, when you
care about the characters that much.  (To the rational extent you can care
about a character in a game.)

"I, I, I can still help...I want to...help...."

I now suspect that Meryl isn't dead, just because of all the flashbacks to
the scene where Sniper Wolf shoots her up.  Very "Full Metal Jacket" that
scene.

"If you die, there are no continues.  I see you haven't saved in a while,
Snake.  Do you really want to have to walk that long road again?  Submit
now, lets make this easy.  If you die during the torture, its GAME OVER."

Metal Gear Solid is a game that plays out intelligently, without any
misconceptions about what it is.  This is a game that knows its a game.  The
cutscenes are flawlessly integrated with the engine.  No shitty FMVs of some
famous actor telling you a briefing.  You become the character.  You as a
PLAYER become a character.

"No tricks here Snake.  Just true power."

So few game designers and programmers play games anymore...I mean really
PLAY games.  You can just load up a game, run around for a bit and say "Oh
that texture looks nice, that model sucks, lets use that in our next engine,
my god what were they thinking."  Then stop and never check out the game
again.  You have to play the game...you have to step into the shoes of the
12 year old kid who got the game for Christmas and PLAY the game.

"Sometimes people hardened from many battles gain a sort of sixth sense...a
sort of feeling.  Learn to trust your feelings Snake.  As a warrior.  As a
gamer."

MGS is just a lesson waiting to happen.  People come into my
office/roomspace thing when I'm playing it, look at it and say "Wow, that's
a cool game." then walk off.  These guys will NEVER understand it.  I don't
think you can just play Quake or Quake2 for an hour a night or whatever and
call yourself a gamer.  Playing games like playing sports doesn't mean you
are a gamer.

"Unfortunately, killing is one of those things that gets easier every time
you do it."

I can understand, though, how game developers get caught up in not playing
games.  When you develop a game, you are playing that game all the time.
You are developing all the time.  That's the excuse anyway, "I don't have
time to get into a game right now."  That's too bad, because six months or a
year from now, when you do have time, someone else is going to have learned
the lessons already and put them into practice.

"Smoke is bad for your health though.  It makes you weak in mind and body."

I understand that different people like different games.  I like the
action-story game...the kind of game personified by System Shock and Metal
Gear Solid.  This is my bread and wine.  The things which dreams and holy
experiences are made of :-)  Hehehe.  I understand that some people like
adventure games, others like RTS games, others like pure action games or
what not.  But if you just look at a game and pass judgement, are you really
learning anything?  Some games, like Battlezone or Uprising, only show their
greatness after they have been experienced; really played.

"Why? WHY? WHY CAN'T I READ YOU!!! WHY!!!"

I used to know this guy in high school who would only read the Wheel of Time
by Robert Jordan.  While this is a very interesting and entertaining series
(a series which would no doubt teach an aspiring fantasy author many
lessons), reading it exclusively is just another form of closemindedness.
The guy would take a look at other books, maybe read a chapter or so, then
go back to reading a WoT book.  WTF?  Its literally judging a book by its
cover and its just like what a lot of so called hard core gamers do.  They
look a game, realize that it isn't Quake, or Quake2, or Zelda or WHATEVER
and they immediately pass judgement.  Game artists are interested in a
game's art.  Modelers are interested in a game's models.  Level designers
are interested in a game's levels.  Programmers are interested in a game's
code.  All of these people are game developers.  Are any of them game
DESIGNERS?

"Huh? What was that noise?"

Maybe I'm not making any sense.  Maybe my lips is movin' but you ain't
hearin' no words.  I dunno...I like to ramble.  I think I'm making sense,
but I might not be.  I'm too subjective.  I just get pissed when someone
looks at a game and says "Oh man that sucks that's terrible." or "Oh that's
really cool." and then never looks at the game again.  Graphics and
technology, while very nice, do not a great game make.  While each element
of these are key to a good game, it is their synergy that is fundamental,
not any one in particular.  Ultimately, it comes down to what the gamer
feels while he or she plays.  Textures do not entertain, levels do not
entertain.  When these things are combined in certain magical ways THEN you
become entertained.

"Just stay still...just lie still I'm getting you out o