User:   greenmarine
Read:   0
Unread: 0
Time:   Mon, 16 Nov 1998 10:32:58 -0800
Plan:
Monday, November 16, 1998
-------------------------

/me bows down before 3DFX.  Drool!

Waking up early in the morning always makes me loopy.  Myscha mentioned that
the guy in power armor in the "LOADING" screen of Half-Life looks like the
net's very own Stephen "Blue" Heaslip.  I've only seen Blue on TV (net shows
are TV dammit) and I would have to agree.  Does anyone else think that
Dhabih Eng's new picture of Elexis looks strangely like Alanis Morissette?

Tim Sweeney moved to Raleigh this weekend.  Cool!  I've worked here for a
while and only met the guy who hired me once, when he came in to look at
Skaarj Corps.  (BTW, SC WILL be released just after 220.)  Anyway, Tim now
shares this room/office space I'm in (also shared with Steven Polge).  Tim
is amazingly cool.  He was showing me all the stuff he's done with the
commercial version of UnrealEd and then we talked about other technology
issues.  He uses white on black text in his IDE though.

Oh jeez, I better go refresh the ship in Ultima Online.  The damn thing is
probably rotted away by now.  Crap!

Okay, ship is refreshed.  Whoop!  Myscha's guild was disbanded so we
discussed creating a sort of "Gathering of Developers" in Ultima Online
hehehe.  A guild of game developers and people that work in the game
industry.  Of course, if you want to join you have to move to Atlantic, but
we can help you get money and equipment and women and ale or whatever you
need to fight skeletons and stuff.

Found a couple cool gaming shops in Raleigh.  I bought about 10 more Rifts
books so I have the entire set except for the Conversions books and the
Rifts Indexes (which I'm not too interested in.)  I might get them anyway
just to have the whole set.  Myscha and I want to start a campaign of some
type, so Myscha has taken the Traveller rules set and updated it.

In my spare time I've been playing lots of games (lately Fallout 2 and Sin
deathmatch while waiting for Half-Life to be released in stores) and working
on misc projects with Andrew Scheidecker.  Andrew is 16 years old and one of
the best fucking programmers I've run into.

What else?  I bought a leather jacket from a harley shop and am having a guy
paint an exploited skull on the back.  The skull will have metal bits and
wires sticking out and the word "FETISH" written in blood on the bottom.  I
called and it should be ready for me to pick up this afternoon.

Tad Williams makes a great cyberpunk author!  Far far crash!

There was something else I was going to write but I forget.  That was a cool
interview with Killcreek a couple days back.  Kansas gamers kick all ass.

Oh yeah, I remember now.  I saw The Siege.

I think its time to go dig up some lunch.

Hmm. I wonder if I can add some Mega Man music to my plan update.

Heheh, maybe that bgsound tag will work, I don't know.  I think people will
find that annoying.  Cool.

I saw Hansen on TV this morning.  Man that pissed me off.

