User:   greenmarine
Read:   0
Unread: 2
Time:   Wed, 2 Dec 1998 09:01:15 -0800
Plan:
I just read that quote on Blue's News:

"'Duke Nukem' is a video game in which the action character forces women to
disrobe, and then he kills them. Eight out of 10 American junior high school
students already know that, but only five in 100 parents do, according to a
report on popular video games released Tuesday in Washington, D.C."

Talk about BLATANT media manipulation.  The above phrase is so misconstrued
I'm shocked.  I probably shouldn't be though, we all know that today's news
media is just a propaganda machine.  How can we fight it when the majority
of people just believe what they are fed off of the television?

The only way we can fight this is by self regulation.  I DO NOT mean self
censorship.  3D Realms has every right to put whatever they want into their
product.  We need things like Blue suggests: review rating systems and
parental education.

Our core argument against censorship is this: You choose to buy the game.
The support for the argument is that it is the PARENTS responsibility to
know what the fuck their kids are playing.  It would be great if someone
would start a webpage for reviews aimed at parents.  I'm not talking about a
page run by ultra rightist censor nazis, but a page run by GAMERS for
parents.  If the industry and gamers can show the self righteous Senators
that we are implementing methods of educating parents they might just lose
some support in congress.

If you run a page like this or if you start one, I urge you to PUBLICIZE it.
The media is a tool, a weapon.  Its currently being used by people who
believe that they have the right to regulate what you view, say, wear, play,
and do.  In short, they believe they have the right to regulate what you
think.  Maybe you don't agree.  If you don't, just sit down and think about
whats going on here...get a copy of Duke 3D and play it then read that
sentence above.  The myth of the impacts of video game violence is just one
of many, many avenues being taken to shut down independent thought in
America.

I dunno, I could almost argue that self-censorship is just a trap.  We added
ratings to the game boxes and it calmed things down for a little while.  Now
some senator who thinks he knows whats best for you and me isn't happy with
the ratings on the game boxes.  If we pacify him who will be next?

