User:   greenmarine
Read:   0
Unread: 0
Time:   Mon, 7 Dec 1998 09:17:15 -0800
Plan:
Unreal 220 is in the final stages.  Tim is going to finish up the package
file patcher (so that the 220 zip isn't a 40 meg download) and then we'll
have a test with the usual beta test suspects.  After that, if everything
checks out, we'll release it.  I'm thinking you might see it around the
middle of this week.

There are four types of game mode now.  Novice, Normal, Hardcore, and Turbo.
Hardcore sets the gamespeed at 110% and increases damage by 170%.  Couple
this with increased knock around and splash damage from splash-based weapons
and you get a much faster, rougher game.  Turbo mode does everything that
Hardcore does, but it also sets the players speed from 400 units to 600
units.  Playing in Turbo mode is INSANE.  You move like the way DoomGuy
moved.  Its very crazy fun.

I took out the sparkley trail on the Dispersion Pistol, because it was slow.
Steve might decide to rewrite it, but if he doesn't want to then it'll stay
out.  The DP is much less annoying now that the trail is gone.

220 will also introduce (as has been mentioned before by Tim) new sound
effects for each weapon.  The old sound effects were pretty weak and the
ones we have now kick all ass.  The Stinger actually feels like a useful
weapon (although it is still rather ineffective, something that will be
addressed in Unreal Tournament).  The sound of a weapon really defines the
weapon's character.  The new flak cannon sound is very cool.

All the issues people have complained about in the past with HUDs and
scoreboards have been addressed.  The scoreboard key is now F1.  The
scoreboard is now much more readable and contains extra information like the
game time elapsed, the map author's name, the map's LevelEntryText line, the
map's SuggestedPlayerCount and the server's name and MessageOfTheDay.  All
of these elements are configurable by either the mapper or the server
operator respectively.

What else?  I've added weapon based deathmessages.  The server operator can
edit their UnrealI.int and UnrealShare.int files to change the deathmessages
for their server.  (We've split the massive UnrealI.u file into two smaller
..u files, UnrealI.u and UnrealShare.u).  Here is how you change
deathmessages:

In UnrealShare.int you will find a section that looks like this:

[DispersionPistol]
PickupMessage=You got the Dispersion Pistol
ItemName=Dispersion Pistol
DeathMessage=%o was killed by %k's %w.  What a loser!

The DeathMessage= line is the deathmessage for the Dispersion Pistol.  Each
of the %o codes are replaced by a string when the deathmessage is shown.
Here is the key to the % codes:

%o - Victim's Name
%k - Killer's Name
%w - Killer's Weapon Name

So "%o was killed by %k's %w.  What a loser!"
becomes
"Myscha_Sleddog was killed by GreenMarine's Dispersion Pistol.  What a
loser!"

You could, for example, change the line to:
DeathMessage=%k smacked down %o with a healthy dose of radiation.

Which would result in:
GreenMarine smacked down Myscha_Sleddog with a healthy dose of radiation.

You can leave out any of the % codes you want to.  Just be nice, and don't
make meaningless death messages (people won't play on your server if you
do).

Other elements of the .int files can be changed...some will work on the
server some wont.  Just experiment.  The .int files exist so that we can
easily translate Unreal.  Every English language string in the game is
exported to .int files.

Tim, Steve, and I have prepared a file for mod authors and licensees that
lists all the relevant script changes in 220.  This file will be included
with the patch (and a version that details C++ changes will probably be
included with the new source distribution).  Mod authors should read it,
because 220 will break compatibility with nearly every mod out there.  On
the bright side, UnrealED 220 will load broken mods and point out errors in
code!

I suspect that we will release a new deathmatch map around the time 220
comes out as well, but I'm not sure.  Keep your eyes peeled.

If you played Unreal in the past and didn't like the multiplayer, get out
your CD, brush it off, and try again when 220 comes out.  There are massive
changes here and the game is much more multi-playable.  220 is essentially
the patch that answers most of the issues that USERS have raised.  If you
were frusted by bugs in the past, check out Unreal deathmatch now.  Not only
is the game's network play faster but its a lot more fun, too.  (Oh, that
reminds me, Steve fixed the jerkyness when riding on movers in a network
game.  Its as smooth as silk now.)

I haven't covered half of the issues that 220 answers here, just the ones
that are probably the most immidiately interesting the players.  Oh, just
remembered something else cool...the GameSpy reporting code now asks the
GameInfo class for rules information (see the GetRules() function in
GameInfo).  This means that mod authors can override GetRules and send their
own fields/rules to GameSpy clients.

Anyway, there is a bunch more in 220 but I don't remember it all right now!


