User:   greenmarine
Read:   0
Unread: 0
Time:   Sun, 10 Jan 1999 15:20:45 -0800
Plan:
The Epic MegaTeam has been struck with a foul blight.  Jack returned from
Christmas vacation with "a bit of a cough" and quickly unleashed an orgy of
infection and physical disability upon us.  I seem to have been hit the
hardest...this is one NASTY cold.  I've never had a cold as bad as this.  I
threw up NyQuil, man that is some repugnant shit.  I lost my voice for three
days.  My stomach is cramped because I've been coughing so much.

Fortunately, the worst seems over with me, Alan and Jack.  My sinus is more
or less clear, my voice is back, my stomach, while aching, is stable and I
can work.  However, the foul bug has just moved in on Shane and Tim.  What
woes will lie before them I wonder?  Pancho already had a cold so his immune
system will no doubt parry off any assault...

NyQuil tastes and looks the same coming up as it does going down.  How is
that for .plan file content?

In other news, just before I got sick I bought a black Gibson Les Paul
Studio and a Crate gfx20 amplifier.  I also took my first lesson.  Kick ass!
This is so much fun.  I don't know why I didn't do this years ago.  So I
took the thing to work to show Pancho (he plays bass).  I'm sitting there
practicing my chords and Tim comes in and says "Cool, let me see it.  Turn
up the distortion."  So...I turn the gain all the way up and the dude starts
WAILING.  He was all over the fret board pumping out some funky riffs and
fret taps.  Wild!

What else?  Shane got a really cool Metallica DVD collection.  I listened to
some Joe Satriani...I'm really starting to appriciate the guitar and Joe is
a grandmaster.  Crystal Planet would make a killer game soundtrack :-)

I'm hooked on Sleater-Kinney.

I'm going to see Frank Black and the Catholics.

KMFDM Agogo has a cover of "Mysterious Ways" on it...HARDCORE!

Oh so you probably want to hear some game related news.  Well, I've just
been doing Unreal Tournament.  Weapons, gameplay, interface and so on.  Its
coming together very well.