Welcome to Raven Software's Finger Service V1.6!

Name: Marcus Whitlock
Email: mwhitlock@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Heretic II
Last Updated: 12/08/1998 09:43:50 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
12/08/98
--------

More Heretic2 netplay stuff. Even on a 500 odd ping I've managed to have some 
decent DM sessions so I'm pretty happy with the performance, even more so when 
considering the far more complex nature of Heretic2's 3rd person client-
prediction compared to 1st person games like Quake2. That said, over the last 
couple of days, I've been working on some tweaks to client-prediction. Also, 
it's nice to see people are already hard at work on 'King of the Hill' and CTF 
mods (saves us the task of doing so and allows us to concentrate on adding new 
core features (i.e. CTF would involve a whole new game.dll) and improving core 
functionality and performance). This doesnÂ’t rule out a Raven CTF mod totally of 
course. But anyhow, way to go guys!

12/04/98
--------

Important tip regarding Heretic2 network play.

Ok - I've been reading the posts on the message boards for Heretic2, esp. 
regarding network play. A small number of folks are reporting having a little 
trouble playing with bad ping times. Heretic2 SHOULD still be playable under 
these conditions, but there are some things that you need to do ensure a decent 
game with a crappy ping.

Set (at the console) cl_frametime to 1. See what is printed - i.e. your 
framerate. If your framerate is really good - say 60fps, then try capping this: 
set cl_maxfps to say 30. How does that play? Better? Good - you can play around 
a bit more. raising cl_maxfps if you're really framerate conscious. No - still 
sucks? Ok you may need to experiment a little and reduce it further (if your 
ping is really lousy). Of course, the best thing is to go find a server (use 
gamespy that came with Heretic2) server that gives you a much better ping. One 
more thing - just because ping times are good - still doesn't mean your 
connection is wonderful - intermittent packet-loss (not lag) can strike at any 
time.

Explanation: Heretic2's client-side prediction (CP) (and of course, Quake2's CP 
- people have experienced the same problem with Quake2) can handle predicting a 
limited number of CLIENT frames ahead while your machine (the client) is waiting 
for the next update frame sent by the server. So if your ping is really sucky 
and your framerate is very high (say you've got a voodoo2). it is quite possible 
that prediction is EFFECTIVELY wanting to predict too many frames ahead and 
can't cope. Hence, reducing the maximum displayable framerate via cl_maxfps, 
reduces the number of frames it will try to predict and thus you won't bust the 
limit I just described. As some observant folks have pointed out - sometimes 
changing to software rendering makes the problem go away - because of course, 
software is probably slower than your super-charged, turbo-nutter-bastard TNT or 
Voodoo 2.

Hope this makes for smoother play for those of you who are affected.


Marcus Whitlock, aka Scorpio.

HereticII Programmer / Brit guy - Raven Software Corp.

http://www.gunhed.demon.co.uk/home.htm