Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: tim.gift     Plan Last Modified: 02/08/1999 11:33:48 PST

Real Name: Tim Gift
Nickname: Slacker
Job: Director/Lead
Project: Starsiege Tribes

1.8.99

Looks like we had a few problems with the 1.2 patch.
The 1.2 patch had a number of changes, some of them we
considered pretty critical.  We were pushing to get
the patch out, but as with anything that is rushed, 
problems creep in and are not caught. We'll correct
those over the next few days and get a revised 1.2
patch out, which will actually bump the number to 1.3.

Version numbering. Just so everyone doesn't get
confused. TRIBES uses three numbers in it's version:
"1.2.3".  The first number indicates client/server
compatibility (hopefully something we won't have to
break, a 1.x.a client can always connect to 1.y.z
server).  The second number indicates a major patch
which we encourage everyone to download.  These major
releases will not have a third number, 1.1, 1.2 or 1.3,
etc. The third number is used for internal testing or
beta releases.  The last beta was 1.1.7, the OpenGL
beta will probably be 1.3.1.  We may go through several
beta releases, 1.3.2, 1.3.3, etc.  Once everyone is
happy with a beta, we bump the second number up and
encourage everyone to download it. In the OGL case this
will probably be 1.4.

Right now the code base for the client and server is
the same and we do not make a distinction between
client and server as far as releases go.  Though some
patches may include more server or client oriented
changes.