Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
-------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: tim.gift     Plan Last Modified: 03/15/1999 15:15:36 PST

Real Name: Tim Gift
Nickname: Slacker
Job: Director/Lead
Project: Starsiege Tribes

3.15.99

Off to CGDC tomorrow. I will be gone for the rest of
the week. Scott is back from Extreme Annihilation. It
Sounds like that went pretty well.  He's heading back
off to CGDC with me tomorrow. With Mark & Dave there as
well, and Nels on vacation, it's going to be a quite
week here for the rest of the TRIBES team.

Soon as we get back from CGDC, we'll be about ready to
ship a beta patch.  This will include some changes to
OpenGL and the integrated mission editor. The mission
editor changes are in preparation for our tools release
which should follow soon after.  There are some  server
side fixes in the beta as well, but I'm not clear on
how we'll upgrade the servers.  We'll sort that out as
when we get back.

There have been a number of "upgrades" to our CA Exodus
site that have caused problems in the last week with
IRC and the master servers, hopefully these are over.
The site is managed by a different division and
sometimes these changes come as a surprise :)

Jeff commented that my last interview for Warzone
seemed a little negative about TRIBES. I didn't mean it
to come across that way. I think TRIBES is a great
game, the best one I've ever worked on. But, like 
anybody who ships a product, I see all the things that
are missing or features that we could have done better.
Every once and a while I'll be playing, or see some
screenshot, and think "Man, this game rocks!". But most
of the time, I find I'm a little more critical :)




