*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: jeremy
Plan modified: Tue Jan 12 16:38:36 1999


01/12/1999
----
I'm ba-ack!  Of course, this prompts the question of
'But...where have you BEEN, Loki?'

Sorry, I realize I fell behind on the mod community stuff,
but I'm also the Lithtech developer relations person.
Suffice it to say I've been here, but I've been REAL
busy.  As you all know by now, Bloodshot has licensed
Lithtech (and they're not the only ones, but we can't
announce the others yet).  So as licensees come up to
the Seattle area for training, as the developer relations
person, I end up spending a lot of time with them...

So for the next while, if I suddenly vanish from answering
my e-mail or appearing on the mod author mailing lists,
it PROBABLY means we have a licensee in town, and that I'm
not in my office because I'm working with them. :)

I will give fair warning, I will probably disappear again
this coming Friday for a while, because of another licensee.

In addition, there've been some really cool things being
worked on for Lithtech 1.5 (the transition between 1.x and
2.x).  I think Brad has finished support for a whole bunch
of new audio stuff... I believe that Blood 2 v2.0 takes
advantage of it already.  (And yes, that should be ready
very soon.)  Also some really neat new animation and
modelling stuff, some of which is being used in another
internal Lithtech-based game.

The Linux server kind of got buried under other things, but
since it's mostly done to an older version of Lithtech, I
just have to eventually clear my schedule for a week, sit
down, and FINISH it.  Hopefully I'll be able to do that 
sometime soon. :)

Cool stuff ahead, hopefully I'll have more news for you
all soon! :)  In the meantime, I'm trying to catch up on
all the mod author stuff that happened while Bloodshot
was up here. :)

--Loki
------------------
12/23/1998
----
First off, Happy Holidays, all.  I don't care what holiday 
you celebrate; go spend some time with your family and 
loved ones.

Secondly, thanks to all those who sent in the requested 
reports of lag on 2.1 - many people sent in very detailed 
reports, and I have a great deal of new information to work 
with.  Once the holidays are over, I'm going to be 
compiling a list of recurring symptoms and 
hardware/software, and then we'll be looking at that, to 
try to find the cause.

Thirdly, and what I know many people read my .plan files 
for (so I'll try not to disappoint)... the current status 
of the Linux port!

In a burst of coding inspiration last night, I got most of 
the core ported over.  I now have a very minimal Lithtech 
server architecture; this is NOT Shogo, however.  

* the Linux port is currently at Lithtech build 21.4, while 
  the 2.1 patch is a later version.  So I need to update 
  the code to the newer version.

* the Shogo code itself has not been ported yet; I wrote a 
  simple test server and client for 21.4, and tested that 
  way.

* 'ltd' (the Lithtech Daemon, the Linux server) currently 
  has NO user control method.  It accepts SIGTERM to 
  shutdown, and that's all.  I'll probably create a network 
  control method over a network socket, and then create 
  both a Windows MFC app to control the server, and a Linux 
  command-line system a'la ctlinnd.

So while it's not quite ready for prime-time yet, the Linux 
port is chugging along smoothly. :)

Anyway, I'm going to go quiet for a while while I go to be 
with relatives for the holidays, so let me just sign off 
with a wish for a happy holiday season and a good new year 
to everyone out there, as well as special holiday wishes 
for all the Lithtech developers, my friends and 
aquaintances out there in the game industry (Tim Sweeny, 
Christian Antkow, Rick Lambright, John Cutter, Keith 
Fuller, Ashley Matheson, the staff of Planetshogo, 
etc...too many to name!), and to everyone on the Shogo mod 
author mailing list.

Have a good, safe holiday season, everyone, and I'll see 
you all in 1999! :)

--Loki
------------------
12/17/1998
----
Ok, I've been buried under Shogo mod community stuff, as 
well as other work, but I thought I'd do a .plan update to 
try to fill people in on various things.

First off, the Linux port is coming along, but I haven't 
had as much time to work on it as I'd like of late.  
*sigh*  Still, it's not a matter of issues in porting, it's 
just a matter of finding the time to work on it more, so it 
is going relatively smoothly.

Secondly, people have been asking about enhanced joystick 
support.  We -are- committed to getting this in, but the 
2.1 patch had to be done first to fix the 3Com/USR modem 
problem.  More on that below.  The 2.2 patch updates will 
focus on adding support for the Panther XL, SpaceOrb, and a 
few other things.  It will also incorporate support for EAX 
and true 3D sound.  And fix any bugs that people report.

Thirdly, I've started hearing reports of people who are 
lagging on the 2.1 patch as well, in one case even on the 
3Com/USR modems the fix was targeted at, but I haven't 
determined any common ground, yet.  If you have a problem 
with the 2.1 patch, PLEASE report it DIRECTLY to me, with a 
subject line of 'Shogo 2.1 Lag Problem'.  

Please, only do this if you're experiencing really bad lag 
on the 2.1 patch.  The forums are NOT the best place to do 
it because they fill up and we may miss posts (plus, the 
developers are sometimes too focused on code to read the 
forums, though we're trying to get back in the habit).

Messages should include a detailed description of the 
problem, your system configuration, the version of Shogo 
you're running, any mods you may be running, what 
configuration Shogo is using (are you using REZ files, or 
have you unpacked into directories? etc.) and any steps 
someone can take to reproduce the problem.  (If we can 
replicate the problem, we stand a much better chance of 
fixing it).

Also, if you HAD a problem and found a fix for it, report 
THAT, too.  You might think it was something obvious, but 
what you find obvious, some other user may not... and if no 
one has reported it, we may not even know that someone had 
a problem and found a fix at all! :)

Hopefully, this will allow us to get help and fixes to 
people much more easily.  

Lastly, I've heard a few reports of people having crashes 
under the 2.1 patch, but they've all been for the same 
reason.  I'd like to reiterate that Lithtech must use *all* 
REZ files, or *all* directories.  This means if you had 
unpacked the earlier REZ files to do editing, and 
downloaded the 2.1 patch, you must unpack SHOGOP3.REZ as 
well... this should help!

--Loki
------------------
Old archives are at:

http://www.users.lith.com/~jeremy/plans/