
Name: Pat Lipo
Email: plipo@mail.ravensoft.com
Description: Lead Programmer/Prog. Manager
Project: Heretic II
Nickname: Vertigon
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------
2-14-00
    In a strange coincidence, 100 years ago today is the day that 
U.S. Currency went on the gold standard.
    SOF=Officially Gold...  Coincidence?  Maybe not...  
------------------------------------------------------------------
2-3-00
    A big ol' beanbag chair is sitting outside my office now with
a huge 3dfx logo on the side.  Just the freebie I needed (well, 
actually it shipped to Rick) to remind me of why I like this 
business so much.  All we need is a lava lamp and the infamous 
(and ugly) Raven migrating 70's lamp to make our shagariffic
lounge-by-the-printer complete.  Thanks 3dfx!
------------------------------------------------------------------
1-30-00
    Lord help me...  Last night I drove out in the middle of a
snowstorm to pay yet another 50 bucks for a game I already own.
"Why?" you might say...  Well, the game is Asheron's Call, and 
since my wife Sandi discovered it, I haven't been able to get a 
game in edgewise.
    Previously I had been playing the same character from both 
work and home (to me, that is one of the coolest things about 
online games...  setting up an account and not having to drag a CD 
around).  She watched me play a few times, but was really bored.  
Then one fateful day, she made a character and started tailoring 
it to what she liked, she couldn't stop.  Unfortunately, since she
might be playing at home, I obviously can't log into the same 
account when I'm at work.
    Setting up the second copy was actually quite easy, I just 
created a second Zone name for my second CD key, no reinstallation 
was needed.  Now I can actually adventure online with her, which 
sounds too much like a uber-geek dream to me...  it's kinda scary.  
On the upside, since I haven't seen her much lately (SOF crunch 
time), I can take an hour break here and there and meet her in the 
lands of Dereth...
    I played a lot of Everquest, but so far Asheron's Call is the
best in my book.  Look me up in the Sho lands on Morningthaw, I go 
as Taberneth or Murasama.
    Now I've got to get back to finishing up those last Soldier of 
Fortune weapons.  Later!
------------------------------------------------------------------
