*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: markd
Plan modified: Thu Apr 16 12:25:56 1998

[04/16/98]

Man you guys rock.  Thank you, Thank you for the solution to my modeless woes.
Here is the short and sweet solution for the curious. In your main message
handler you need to put in a call to "IsDialogMessage" with the handle of your
modeless dialog boxes and than all is hunky dory.  This actually makes
compelete senes in a Win32 way, but sometimes you look for a much more complex
solution to a simple problem.  I can't believe that I would have to insert an
"IsDialogMessage" call for everyone of my modeless dialog boxes, but this
seems to be the case.  In any case, thanks for all the great advice.

As far as the "Vaporware" thing goes.  I got a bunch of supportive email and a
bunch calling Sin a TC or worse a level pack.  Folks, let me assure you that
Sin is a full blown game with amazing characters, weapons and gameplay that
just happens to use an enhanced Quake II model to push pixels on the screen,
and send packets over the net.  Anyone who has followed Ritual/Hipnotic knows
that we are about quality and originality, you will not be disappointed with
Sin.

[04/15/98 13:63 PM]

I just love being called "Vaporware", it really gives you that warm and fuzzy
feeling all over.  For the record, Sin began development April 1st, 1997.  It
is now April 15th, 1998.  That means that we have been in development for
1.039 years.  Now I won't say how long other games called "Vaporware" have
been in development, but a year is about 6 months sooner than any game since
Wolfenstein 3D.  So the next time, someone decides to talk dirt about our
baby, I would appreciate if they looked at the facts first.

Help me!  I have this one problem in SinEd that has driven me nuts from day
one, and I was hoping some Win32 guru out there may be able to shed some light
on the situation.  I have a dialog which I open with a CreateDialog call.  I
have my own DialogWinProc to handle the Dialog.  The WM_INITDIALOG message
returns FALSE, indicating that windows should not give me the focus (if I do,
keyboard focus goes away and I can't ever get it back).  Now here is my
problem, with this setup, the TAB key will not tab between my various
TABSTOPS.  If however, I create the dialog with a DialogBox call, everything
works fine.  Frankly I am perplexed, and annoyed why the two have had such
different behaviors.  I would be happy just being able to get keyboard input
into that WinProc, but it does not respond to WM_KEYDOWN events either.  Any
thoughts out there would be most welcome.  Besides, you'll be helping
yourselves, 'cause when Sin ships so will SinEd.

Thanks.


=========================================================================
=  = = Mark Dochtermann = Ritual Entertainment
=========================================================================

************************************************************************
* NOTE:  Any views expressed here do not reflect the official position *
* of Ritual Entertainment.  They are my own views and should not be    *
* confused with those of the company.                                  *
************************************************************************
pleasant email