*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: markd
Plan modified: Mon Mar 01 17:47:04 1999

03/01/99 - Part 2
========

3DNOW support
=============

I found two potential problems for 3DNOW users out there.  The first one is
that if you installed the patch, you are still probably using your old config.
This isn't an issue except that version 1.01 of Sin turned off the
"vid_checkamd" variable because at the time the 3DNOW support was not done.
This variable was then saved in your config.cfg so by updating to version
1.03, you still don't have 3DNOW support because vid_checkamd is set to zero
not 1.  To fix this either edit your config.cfg in
base/players//config.cfg or create a new player config.

The other problem is that the latest changes to the renderer for the mission
pack Wages of Sin have not been 3DNOW optimized and therefore do not show up.
2015 had added additional particle effects that are currently not supported in
the 3DNOW enhanced, ref_gl_amd.dll.  I am taking steps to make sure that these
changes are integrated in the near future.

Thanks go to David W. Anderson for finding out the reason, he wasn't getting
3DNOW acceleration.

03/01/99
========

Version 1.03
============

There seems to be some confusion out there about 3DNOW support in version 1.03
of Sin.  I guess people are so used to having to specify things that they
don't expect programs to work like you would expect them to. ;)

Sin does an automatic detection of 3DNOW, EAX and A3D.  If you scroll back the
console buffer when you start a game it will tell you which renderer it loaded
if it says "------- Loading ref_gl.dll -------" you are loading the normal
renderer and if it says "--------- loading ref_gl_amd.dll -------" you are
loading the 3DNOW enhanced renderer.

Variables which help in the process:

vid_checkamd (default 1) - enables the check for 3DNOW support
s_checkeax (default 1) - enables the check for Creative's EAX support
s_use3dsound (default 1) - enables A3D support

I hope this clears up some confusion.

CTF
===

Aldie has been hard at work on CTF and we are almost ready for a public beta,
expect to see something soon.

Mark D

Ritual Entertainment