
*** Ritual Entertainment's Finger Server

User name: markd
Plan modified: Tue Jun 06 10:43:34 2000

June 6th, 2000
==============

One of the most common questions I get from interviewers when they ask general
questions about the industry is whether or not it is possible for the lone
wolf developer to make a quality product in this industry.  My answer has been
no for quite some time, because I felt that the market pressures were just to
great for someone to break into the giant publisher dominated business.
Yesterday I played something that I hoped would change my answer to yes.

The Croatians have been busy...go check out www.croteam.com and download the
demo of Serious Sam.  Not only does it have impressive technology with every
single technology feature you can think of, but it also has real gameplay.  I
started playing the game and within moments I felt a little bit of that Doom
urgency.  The technology allows for absolutely huge layouts and their LOD
system allows for scores of monsters.  Before I knew it, I was really enjoying
a frenetic FPS shooter again, something you don't find often these days.

The game certainly has its weak points and the subject matter is a bit
bizarre, but I encourage publishers and gaming enthusiasts out there to check
it out, you won't be disappointed.

June 2nd, 2000
==============

When we started Ritual Entertainment 4 years ago, the 6 of us made a pact with
each other never to let business affect our personal lives.  We have
definitely had some tough times during that period and we've had to swallow
our pride on more than one occasion.  For the most part though, we have
managed to stay good friends with each other and we hope that never changes.

It is with some sadness and a lot more jealousy that I must report that our
friend and chief technologist, Jim Dose' is leaving the company to join Id
Software. Jim has had a tremendous effect on how Ritual Entertainment has
turned out and he will certainly be missed.  We could be upset with Jim but
consider these three facts:

1. Jim is leaving the company to join Id Software.
2. Jim is leaving the company to work on the next Doom.
3. Jim is leaving the company to work on the next Doom.

Everyone at Ritual wishes Jim the best and we thank him for everything he has
done to make Ritual the company it is today.  As we see it we aren't losing a
part of Ritual, a piece of Ritual is joining Id Software.

I personally want to thank Jim for teaching me so much about software
development over the last 4 years, it has been a pleasure working with you.

Maybe Jim will now get the chance to race his Z3 against Carmack's F50. :)

Mark D
<markd@ritual.com>
Ritual Entertainment
