Account Name:  Lee Jackson
Email address: leej@3drealms.com
----------
Chapter 12 - The Gathering Storm
================================

The replacement system is still up and running, although not without
occasional heart-stopping glitches. So far, though, rebooting has put
things back into "all is well" mode. My worry beads and lucky rabbit's foot
are getting quite worn out.

Life at the office is getting interesting with E3 approaching. Musical
ideas don't enjoy being forced out into the open without a good deal of
mental foreplay first. I'm also exploring genres that I've never worked in
before, and that doesn't make things any easier. I'm determined to get
things done with time to spare, though, or to at least have a nervous and
physical breakdown trying.

One thing that keeps me going is a potential hardware addition to the
studio after E3. I'm looking at supplementing the K2500RS, SC-88, and M-SE1
with a synth that will compliment the group while adding new capabilities.
So far, the candidates include:

        Kawai K5000R
        Waldorf Microwave XT
        Access Virus
        Roland JP-8000

Those of you who are familiar with my work know that I'm a composer and not
really a keyboard performer.  This puts the JP-8000 toward the bottom of
the list, since the feedback and research I've gathered implies that its
MIDI implementation leaves much to be desired. In fact, only its sound is
keeping it in the running, although I've been told that there are other
units (the Virus, for one) that can do everything the JP-8000 can do and
more.

The Kawai K5000R is the strongest contender at the moment, due to its
additive synthesis, decent MIDI manipulation, overall unique sound, and
reasonable price. I'm very strongly considering the Microwave XT and the
Virus, though - I wish I could get all three, or at least two of these. If
anyone out there has any real-world experience with any of these devices,
I'd appreciate some e-mail with your comments. No cheerleaders or gonzo
salesmen, please.

Cool Tool of the Month: TARGET="_top">ANWIDA Soft's Effects Processor Pro, v1.0. This is a tiny
little standalone chorus/reverb/phaser processor that I liked from the
moment I fired it up. It's fast, very inexpensive, and lets you create some
sounds in seconds that would take much longer and involve a lot more
tweaking in other programs. The program is being developed into a DirectX
plugin for Sound Forge/Cakewalk/Etc., so it has a definite future. Grab a
copy today.

==================================================================================
The Dusenberg Uncertainty Principle - "Now, where did I park that smegging car???"