Welcome to id Software's Finger Service V1.4!

Name: John Cash
Email: jcash@idsoftware.com
Description: Programmer
Project: Quake 2
Last Updated: 03/03/1998 22:40:51 (Central Standard Time)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOH!!!
------
I really, truly, honestly wanted to get the game dll source
out tonight.  Really!  But, ummm, some things didn't quite
work out right so I'll be doing it tomorrow.  Sorry!

autoexec confusion
------------------
I've gotten enough emails about this that I want to try to
get it out to more people.  I had an entry in the change log
about the autoexec.cfg.  What it means is this.  Say you have
Quake2 and the CTF mod.  If you are playing a regular game of
Quake2 (single player, coop, or deathmatch) it will execute
the autoexec,cfg from teh \quake2\baseq2 directory.  But if
you are playing CTF if will run the one in \quake2\ctf.  It
will NOT look in baseq2 in there is not one on CTF.  This was
done so that you can have commands executed that are specific
to CTF that are only run when you are playing CTF.  Sorry for
any confusion, but I think you'll find it really is better
this way!

Hellrot HPB?
------------
Earlier tonight I played CTF for a while on a server called
"Choke_N_Puke_AK".  Just wanted to say a couple of things
about it.  First, to Pookiez, Lazarus, and the rest of the
people there: yes it really was me and thanks for the game.
Second, Lazarus and I kicked some major butt until we got
outnumbered.  Lastly, my ping averaged about 600 but I think
those guys can vouch that I was still able to play a totally
competative game.  And, no, I don't think I'm *that* good.

Fun Names
---------
Ya know, I kinda get the feeling that this thing means a lot
to some people (that was sarcasm in case ya missed it).  I
promise you that I will keep it in mind while working on our
next project, OK?  I definitely want to correct things for
people with "funny" letters in their names.

Samoas
------
Man, they need to sell Girl Scout Cookies year round.  Seven
boxes of Samoas just don't last very long.

Life
----
Heh.  Don't ask programmers about life.  Everyone know that
we don't have one!!!  Eating junk and depriving yourself of
sleep?  *That* we can help you with.

--------------------
John Cash
jcash@idsoftware.com
"Hellrot"
