Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
August 8, 2002 - 1:27AM

Okay, so Winamp3 has finally hit the streets.
It's funny to see that our biggest competitor
is Winamp2. That's comforting I suppose. It's
frankly a little irritating to me that people
are expecting it to be as light-weight as 
Winamp2 when it can do about 10 times more 
things. This is a next generation product, 
these are some of the prices you pay. When 
Winamp2 was released, it wasn't all that lite
on resources either you boys and girls. It
was actually even more resource and memory 
intensive than Winamp3 is with today's hard-
ware. It's just that you guys are all spoiled
with the advances in computers that you've 
forgotten.

It doesn't matter. If Winamp3 doesn't suit
your needs, stick to Winamp2, it's not going
anywhere and will continue to get developed
off and on. So you'll continue to get your
updates. You'll eventually get to the point
where Winamp3 is just going to be too 
compelling to ignore. 

Regardless, we'll work on the issues as they
come up and we'll continue to include the 
changes to make this player better and better.

On a side note, I think the lesson I should 
learn this year is... "If you want something
bad enough, you can get it..." There were
like three subtle things that happened
throughout this evening that has reinforced
this concept for me and I'd just like to
share that with ya.

Okay, time for bed. Good night, and thanks 
for all the support from our loving users.

-s


Login: swoods         			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.