Login: #swoods        			Name: Steve Woods
No Plan.

Login: steve          			Name: Steve Gedikian
Project:
Do things that people tell me I can't do.

<a href="http://genghis.winamp.com/~steve/plan/">Read my archived journals.</a>
Plan:
November 4, 2002 - 7:15PM

Wow. Easynews.com rocks my fucking shit like no
body does. It's amazing. So fast, and happy, all
at the same time.

So T1 is here, well, basically. The line is all
hooked up and everything. We're just waiting for
WorldBomb to finish their part of the deal and 
we're live. I can't wait. It'll be nice to be
able to upload shit at a reasonable rate. You may
think how often do I have to do that? Well, every
time I want to publish my pictures online, it's 
like an entire night worth of bandwidth going to 
hell. it sucks.

I have to go to the office tomorrow. I'm not
excited about it. That's for sure. My car is at
the parking lot, I fear looking at it. There's 
soda all in side of it after the accident caused
the Coke can to explode. I just want her to report
the fucking claim so that I can get this shit
taken care of. It's so annoying. I'm just sitting
on my ass waiting for her to call her insurrance 
company. What the fuck.

Anyway. Sharon's at work. I'm going to go play
some GTA VC. Then i'll probably just take a shower
and head off to bed. Some night, huh?

-s