User:   amaxwell
Read:   0
Unread: 0
Time:   Tue, 1 Sep 1998 13:28:56 -0700
Plan:
  Well folks, it's another week and another review.  Let's just jump into
it.

	The first question on some people's minds is, I'm sure, what happen to last
weeks review?  When I did the review for the week before (8/21) it was so
late that it seemed pointless to me to do another one 3 days later.  SO I
held off until this week.

   We're working on adding and tweaking a bunch of the gameplay right now.
I can't go into too much detail (which I'll explain below), but we're
basically continuing our quest to make the game as fun and enjoyable as
possible.  I spent last week going over all of the special abilities and
powers.  As it stands right now, the game has an awesome assortment of
items, weapons, abilities and powers.  In othe words, not only is each
member of your gang going to be unique in appearance and basic function,
their higher level abilities will set them apart as well.

    From a technical standpoint we spent a lot of last week worrying about
viruses. ;)  No, seriously with all of the CIH and Marburg news we were
surprised to find our systems virus free (well except for one system with an
annoying word-macro virus).  but actual technical work included more engine
tweaking for performance (hey I'm a designer, I know what they're doing, but
I'll be damned if I know how. ), and some more polishing of the level
editor.  We also did a rework of the shell, but that's a change that I'm not
sure anyone will notice since there have been very few screenshots of the
shell released, and only the folks at E3 or who have stopped by our office
have seen it in action...

   So...  On to the forums.  There were a lot of interesting posts on the
sec-net and elm (now www.deathlands.com)message boards.  A few that caught
my eye compared Third World to 2000AD (Well, compared our Wardroids anyway)
and Darklands (one of the coolest rpgs I've played by the way).  While these
were interesting comparisons that I'd be proud of, they don't really match
up.  Third World may share some elements with both, such as atmosphere, or
the size of your gang, but beyond that Third World is set in a world that
hasn't been seen before.  It's a world with its own detailed history and
problems.  We don't need anyone else's. ;)

   The other thing that I've noticed is that a lot of people want this game
to way more then it can ever possibly be.  That's a pretty blunt statement,
so let me explain a bit:  A lot of the post mention cool features to add to
the game (called shots for example), but the context that these features are
described in is the context of an online world like Ultima Online.  I blame
myself for this really since I know I haven't been all to clear on the scope
of the game.  That's something I intend to remedy now.  Third World will
include an online portion with _SOME_ world persistance.  What does that
mean?  Well, I'd rather you see our online world before I describe it, but
that means that the world is going to be changing at a drastic pace at
times.  Which means, no, you can't buy your own castle and prey on innocent
travellers.  I'm sorry. ;)  Another thing that seems to confuse people is
the style of play.  In Ultima Online, for example, you have no clear goal,
other then "have fun".  You're dumped into the world to do as you please.
Which is cool, trust me, I dropped a lot of cash into Ultima Online. ;)
Third World is a little different.  TO begin with, you're controlling a gang
of five characters that contracts mercenary work through sec-net, a
monolithic on-line recruiting and employment database.  In other words, you
may not have a clear end goal, but part of what you do in the game is
already explained for you.

   Even controlling 5 different characters makes a huge difference.  Instead
of creating a single character that you want to be a kickass (insert job
here), you're creating 5 characters that hopefully have a usefull balance of
skills and abilities between them.  That's going to change how you make
decisions, and ultimately, how you play the game.  Third World isn't Ultima
Online, and it's not [snip], that action oriented game that debuted the
[snip] game service, you know the one where you were fighting your way down
to the big bad boss [snip] and collecting weapons and other stuff along the
way?  Third World is somewhere in between.  It has to be because of its
style of play.  The pure action of [snip] is great (especially when playing
with 3 friends online), and so is the open-ended epic that is Ultima Online,
but both games require different styles of play to succeed.  I mean, [snip]
would not have been as fun if it had the complexity of Ultima Online, the
scope is too small for that.  Ultima Online would have been boring if it
only contained the action of [snip], the world is too large, the game too
open-ended, and the number of people playin too great to be just an action
game.  Like I said, Third World lies somewhere in the middle.  It's not just
action like [snip] and it's not the complex hundred skill system of Ultima
Online.  Instead it's a game where combat is not the only option, and even
when combat is innevitable, you'll have to devise a strategy to win.  On the
other hand it's not soo open-ended that your assault level wardroids will be
cutting trees down to make chairs either. ;)  Whew, ok I'm rambling a bit,
but here's the skinny...  There are some limits to what you can and can't do
in Third World, they are not so imposing that you're forced through every
aspect of the game like a tourist taking the tram tour at Universal Studios,
but limits do exist.  These limits have to exist to prevent online games
from degenerating into total chaos, and to keep the single player game fun,
involving, and moving as well.

   OK, I'm sure I'll get comments on that one. ;)  Now onto some other
things.  RPGs:  Why is it that when everyone talks about their favorite old
RPGs, no one mentions Ultima 5?  That's definitely my favorite in that
particular series, and probably my favorite RPG of all time.  Hell, Ultima 5
was the first computer game I bought!  Before that I got my games as...
umm...  err..  gifts.  I swear.  What does everyone have against it?!

Hmm, I think I'll wrap it now for now folks, there's more...  There's always
more. ;)  but I'll save it until after I hear some of your remarks.
- Adam "Wager" Maxwell
  09/1/98