User:   amaxwell
Read:   0
Unread: 0
Time:   Thu, 17 Sep 1998 18:48:17 -0700
Plan:
Well, it's been a week and a half since my last review, I apologize for
that, but we've been busy as all hell. ;)  Let's get started shall we?

   Over the last week and a half we've had a lot of stuff in the works, s=
ome
of it I can't talk about yet, but I'm going to talk about the cool stuff =
I
can talk about.

  The first cool thing is the map editor.  I've mentioned this a bit in t=
he
past, but a lot more work has gone into it since then.   When I made maps
before I'd get really annoyed at how hard it was to texture map stuff.  I
shudder to think about it now, but suffice it to say it was a tedious and
painstaking process and was the part I looked forward to the least.  That
sucks for a lot of reasons, texturing is one of the most important parts =
of
making these maps.  The Geometry can be as cool as it comes, but without
good texturing it's not going to matter.  After crying about it and
commiserating about it with Ron we were saved.  Martin, one of our kick-a=
ss
code monkeys, has been working on the map editor, and he recently
implemented a new method of texturing that is slick, easy, and still allo=
ws
for the detailed work that our old, tedious, lame system did.  Applying
textures is still a long process, but the time it takes seems to have at
least been halved now.  That's may more improvement then we'd hoped for s=
o
we're totally stoked.  Another cool thing that got added recently involve=
d
viewing the map in "solid" mode.  If you ever edited quake levels or if
you've done some 3D modeling, you probably know what I mean.  I'm not a 3=
D
modeler, but I've created my share of quake maps in the past.  One thing
that always annoyed me about solid mode was that you could barely
distinguish angles.  In most quake and other fps level editors the solid
mode has no shading.  Again Martin came to the rescue by adding an option=
 to
turn on a shading mode that allows you to clearly see each plane and poly=
 of
a piece of world geometry.  I never really thought about how much differe=
nt
makes "solid" mode.  It's so much slicker and usable now.  Suffice it to =
say
I feel like a kid who just got exactly what I wanted for my birthday. ;)

  We've been fortunate with our programmers, if you ask me.  They are a
seriously dedicated group of talented ass-kicking individuals, and I feel
lucky to be able to work with them.

  On the artwork side of things, we've added a bunch of new animations to
the characters that make them feel even more life-like.   Derek Frost, ou=
r
Art Director, has been working on enhancing the custom portrait system an=
d
man it is looking amazing right now.  I love this point in the developmen=
t
of a game because everything clicks together and the game visibly evolves=
 on
a daily basis.  Of course, I'll be changing my tune the next time I have =
to
live in my office for days on end, but hey, that's the way the job works.=
 ;)

I guess that's it for the moment, but let me end this with a question, an=
d
it's a weird one=85  How exactly do _you_ think multiplayer will work in =
this
game?  Obviously I know exactly how it works, but I'm curious as to what =
you
expect.  I figured that since we hadn't said much about multiplayer yet i=
t'd
be a great time to ask this question=85

Until next week=85

- Adam "Wager" Maxwell
- 09/17/98

