Username: petri                     In real life: Petri Jarvilehto      


Plan:
Hi all,

First of all, thanks to everyone who sent ideas and e-mail
on Weapons in Max Payne. After reading through hundreds of
e-mails, I'm now confident that we're on the right track
with our weapon design. A lot of the things that we're
suggested we're things we were doing anyways, but there
has been some new cool ideas that we've overlooked. (I won't
spoil the surprise and tell you which ones :-) Still, if
you think you have some ideas that would be extremely cool
with a real world weapon setup, you can still sneak in an
e-mail to me... who knows, it might still make it to the
game.

Second, I think that the gaming community deserves a right
to give input on the games we're working on, so in addition
to weapons please send feedback on level design. Do you get
the biggest kicks out of Jedi Knight? Quake 2? Duke? Do you
think that realism is the key element, or does it matter as
long as the level plays well? Everything should naturally
be interactive, but what would be to coolest thing to break
or activate in real life? Machinery? Glass/Ice statues?
Chandeliers? What?

As always, send e-mail directly to petri@remedy.fi. Please
use subject line 'Max Payne Levels' or 'Max Payne Weapons'
depending on what you're giving feedback on.

Cheers,

Petri

