
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: rix
Plan modified: Tue Aug 10 15:15:32 1999

Dan "Rix" Hammans
Quality Assurance
ION Storm

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note: The ideas expressed in here are not necessarily those of my employer,
      however they might very well be. Of course they would never admit it
      if that were the case, so just assume I'm acting on my own initiative.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

[8/10/99]

QuakeCon comes to an end. Major props out to my boy George "Diehard-r3v"
Myshlyayev of Clan r3volution who took the QuakeCon tournament this weekend.

I would also like to thank everyone for all the kind emails I recieved
about my own performance in the tournament. I've come to find that working
full-time in the gaming industry and trying to compete in tournaments is
extremely difficult. I just can't miss tournaments, I love to compete
regardless.

The CPL just announced the next event, Ground Zero in New York this
September. Everyone should check out the badass flash intro done by Jerry
"Polish" Wolski at http://www.cyberathlete.com/groundzero.

See you all in New York :)
-Rix

[7/30/99]

Wow, looks like John's plan update caught the attention of everyone a lot
quicker than mine did.

To clarify however, we are only looking for people in the Dallas area.
While it is true there is an ION office in Austin, the testing will be done
at the Dallas location only. We will not be sending any copies of the game
off-site, all testing is to be done on-site here at Dallas ION.

-Rix

[7/30/99]

I'm looking for a few people who are interested in coming up to ION Storm
in September to help playtest Daikatana. We're looking for people in the
Dallas area who could come up in the evenings and do some supplemental
testing, and give us some input.

At this point I can't offer any pay for doing this, however I will round
up some TNT2 Ultra's or something of that nature to give away. John Romero
said he would take everyone out to dinner at the end, so it should be a
good time.

If you are serious and want to do this, I would like to hear from you.
Write an email to dktest@ionstorm.com telling us why you're the perfect
person for the job. I won't be picking by who simply replies first, I don't
want to encourage rushed emails. So take your time, and drop us an email.
Please include your full name, and a telephone number where we can contact
you.

Thanks!



