Message of the Day:

Welcome to the Dynamix Finger Server!
be sure to check out http://www.dynamix.com
---------------------------------------------------------------------
User Name: dave.moore     Plan Last Modified: 12/22/1999 11:43:04 PST

Burn All .GIFs Day!

Now I'm not going to get up on a soapbox here, but this seems like a good day
to talk about how Tribes 2 will be making use of .GIF's heir-apparent, the
.PNG.  We've made the .PNG our preferred texture format, which has simplified
things around here drastically.  No longer are there 5 different texture
formats: one for vanilla RGB textures, one for RGBA textures, one for
lightmaps, etc.  Just .PNGs from now on.  (We'll still support .BMPs as
drop-ins for RGB textures, but we'll recommend .PNG for all user-created
textures, skins, logos, etc.)

While we're on the subject, let me put in a few plugs for the people that have
been working to make PNG a viable new image format or are providing no-cost
programs to manipulate them.

http://www.cdrom.com/pub/png/          - The PNG Page
http://www.cdrom.com/pub/infozip/zlib/ - The zlib Page

These guys are doing an amazing public service.  libPNG and zLib are drop-in,
free libraries that make adding support for .PNG a piece of cake.  (Also,
we've used zLib to add support for compressed .zip files to Tribes 2.)

http://www.gimp.org - The GNU Image Manipulation Program

For skin/texture artists who can't (or just don't want to) shell out the money
for a copy of Photoshop, I recommend looking into The Gimp.  This program is
shaping up as a great alternative for image creation.  The primary development
is progressing on Linux, so the latest version might not be accessible to Win32
users, but there are recent ports available that are stable, and fully
functional, though the user interface might initially seem a bit odd to folks
who've never used many X11 apps.

http://www.burnallgifs.org - LZW Ideology

Just in case you want to rant and rave about the Unisys patent for awhile.  (We
all need a good rant now and again...)
