
*** Monolith Production's Finger Server

User name: dussault
Plan modified: Wed Jun 23 14:23:14 1999

				6/23/99

Time for an update about E3.  I've been amazed at all the 
interest in Lithtech that E3 generated.  Here's an article 
I can't argue with:

http://www.voodooextreme.com/articles/E3_99/

I can't really pick one thing I saw as the most 
impressive... it all sort of blended together.  The things 
that stick out in my mind are Drakan, Anachronox, and 3rd 
Law's Psycho Circus game.  3rd Law just released this video:

http://www.bluesnews.com/files/kiss/kiss_e3-99_indeo51.shtml

I couldn't believe the hordes of monsters in their game.. 
you have to see it to believe it.  If I had a Men of the 
Year award, the 3rd Law team would get it.

The most memorable events I have of the E3 trip are:

1. I busted half a move.  In my vocabulary, busting a move 
is getting a phone number from a girl you don't know.  
Busting half a move is complimenting them but not having 
the balls to get the number.

2. We played pool in a bar next to Jamie Fox.

3. Jason, Chris and I had just finished up a nice meal and 
were stepping out of the restaurant on the Santa Monica 
Promenade when we saw some lights flicker about half a
block down.  We all looked, then there was a HUGE (3 story 
high) explosion in which a manhole cover was blown out of 
sight.  The first thing I remember is feeling a heat wave.
The next thing was seeing the crowd go into panic mode.  We 
stood around for a little, then got up closer to see that a 
hole about 10 feet in diameter had been blown in the
road.  Apparently a gas pipe had exploded.  The square 
piece of metal that holds the round manhole cover in place 
was jammed in the road sideways so it looked like a diamond 
sitting on one of its edges.

After E3, Joel and I were at Universal Studios 
at 'Creativity', at which there were a bunch of informative 
talks.  It's good that the people that populate the video 
card companies are cool since we have to spend so much time 
with them :)

Lithtech2 is proceeding along nicely.  Among other things, 
S3 texture compression is in now which reduces our texture 
file sizes and will make a big difference on cards that 
support it.  I was amazed at the quality of S3's texture 
compression library, I can't even tell the difference 
between uncompressed and compressed textures (but then 
maybe that's because I don't want to see it :)  Just in 
case, each texture can be stored as compressed or 
uncompressed.

Jonathan and I went to a Tom Waits show in L.A. last week,
it was totally awesome!  After 2 1/2 hours and 3 encores I 
could've sat there for another 10 hours.  We saw Chuck 
Weiss and Benicio Del Toro hanging out in the lobby too.  
Our seats were pretty far back (and security was tight!) so 
we didn't have a very good view, but I got the first hour 
or so on tape!



				4/19/99

Lithtech2 development is proceeding far faster than I 
expected.  At this point, it's like night and day compared 
to where it was a few months ago.  Cool features are 
getting added every day.  What's cool is that the R&D will 
continue for at least the next few months.

It's interesting to see the Lithtech API evolve over time.  
We've experimented with so many styles and ways of 
structuring things that the API has looked very different 
at different times.  As it moves on, I can see it steering 
a course between speed, complexity, usability, and 
consistency.

Our Lithtech2 E3 demo is looking AWESOME.  It's very 
outdoors-ish.  It's already looking much better than I had 
envisioned.  While not "2 years before its chosen time", 
this demo will pump fear.

I'm psyched to see 3rd Law's (Bloodshot's) game at E3.  
From what I've seen so far, it's looking great.  It has 
been great working with these guys, it's obvious they have 
a lot of experience and know their shit.  Their game will 
kick ass so keep an eye on it.

A few of the new developments...

Skeletal animation is working great so far.  Each model can 
now have multiple textures assigned to it as well.  M.A. is 
pimping out models with shared animation sets.

Support for 32-bit textures and screen surfaces has been in 
for a while.  I'm very happy with the way it's structured.. 
all the color conversion code was strewn out before but now 
it is cenralized, clean, and simple.  It's definitely 
better to be using 32-bit textures and a 16-bit screen than 
16-bit textures and a 32-bit screen.

The TNT2 owns me.  It's very interesting to be working in 
this paradigm where the card isn't the bottleneck anymore.  
The bottleneck is much more on the processor and data 
structure side.  The biggest overall change in Lithtech2 
will be to support the kind of rich environment that we can 
now render in the networking, tools, and physics.

We have a SoftImage terrain exporter now.  This is a huge 
leap over the previous way we made terrains.  It's much 
faster and easier to texture and manipulate the terrains in 
Soft.  

There are some new tricks the preprocessor does to optimize 
the terrains.  It can sometimes strip out 65% of the polies 
on the terrain with no noticeable difference.

Detail textures really enhance the look of our terrain.  It 
really makes the texture on the terrain look larger and 
more detailed.  The goods...

The model lighting is much more accurate now.  Models can 
be lit accurately from lights placed in the environment, so 
you can get nice subtle bits of light all over them.

We're playing around with different blending modes that 
work well for things like the sun and clouds passing 
overhead.  I'll describe this better later.

We've got some cool time of day effects going in.  The 
entire world gets lit directionally as the sun passes 
over.  Model lighting and shadows tilt around as the sun 
moves.  The entire terrain gets lit as well.

There's a new type of object called a Canvas that allows 
the game to render polies directly.  

This allows for some cool effects like lightning, fire, 
glass shattering, etc..

Pultzar hasn't been messing around at all.  DEdit is 
getting friendlier and friendlier all the time.  The node 
names in the node view can be set to show the class name or 
object name.  You can mirror brushes.  There are sphere and dome primitives.  There are browse dialogs for filenames, 
etc..

Bouwman's been working on improving the visible surface 
determination for Sanity.  There have been major speed 
improvements on that game already and he's not even done 
yet.

Countdown to Mule Variations: 8 days




				
3/13/99

Just finishing up the implementation of skeletal animation 
for Lithtech 2. This will REALLY help our games have more 
models with better animation. There are several key 
advantages of skeletal animation we'll be using extensively
in our LT2 game:
                     
Shared animation sets - Models with the same skeleton can 
share animation sets.  This will save the animators TONS of 
time in exporting and tweaking animations.  This also 
allows us to change the geometry of the character very 
easily without changing the animation. 
                                        
Memory savings - Skeletal animation itself cuts the memory 
requirements of model animation down by a factor of 2-3.  
Using shared animation sets should halve it again.  
Basically, animation memory will NOT be a problem!

Rotatable nodes at runtime - This will allow us to move 
character heads, eyes, limbs, and mouths independent of the 
animation they're playing.  One thing we might experiment 
with is a 'ragdoll' mode a model can be put into where 
their bones use realistic physics without any specific 
animation being played for infinite variety in the 
character deaths and recoils.
                                                            
The attachment system is being reworked to allow MUCH more 
flexibility. Attachments points on models used to be 
geometry nodes in the model.  This took up lots of memory 
for the extra animation data.  Now, the 'sockets' will 
simply be a position and rotation offset from a bone in the 
model.  This means we can have MANY more attachment points 
for free and they can be repositioned inside ModelEdit very 
easily.

Other than that, LT2 is proceeding very nicely.  There are 
new optimizations in the preprocessor that help reduce the 
final poly count a LOT.

Pultzar is on DEdit now - the new DEdit is kicking butt.

We now have model exporters for these modeling packages: 
SoftImage, 3DSMAX, Lightwave, and Maya.   

The next few months are going to be heavy graphics R&D.  
I'll describe the specifics of the features we're doing 
later (doing want to speak too soon :).


				

