
*** Ion Storm's Finger Server

User name: squirrel
Plan modified: Thu Sep 10 14:22:51 1998

================== Thursday, September 10, 1998, 1:56pm =================

Oh daddy.

Being the world's foremost whiner and complainer about all things rotten
with WinQuake, QuakeWorld, and Quake2's mouse control (and having all but
refused to play these games due to this problem), I have finally seen
the light.

I have, of course, heard about USB mice and how great they are for quite
some time now.  Being the eternal skeptic - and fearing change, as I
often do - I had not bothered to really look into them or to buy one to
try it out.  Until now, that is.

As soon as the box arrived in the mail, I hooked it up and ran my little
mouse sampling-rate test program on it.  Where before mice were showing
40hz and 44hz sample rates (for ps/2 and serial, respectively), my new
USB mouse showed a VERY impressive 125hz.  Yow.

For those of you who read my mini-dissertation-rant on why it's BAD to
have a framerate higher than 40/44hz (and even worse to have a low one),
the USB mouse is indeed the answer to that problem.  Now it's safe to
crank up your SLI Voodoo2s and your refresh rate and your cl_maxfps
and turn off that nasty m_filter.  Your mouse performance will be
fantastic, a complete turnabout from the previous state of the universe.
Fast button-to-fire response (because of no more cl_maxfps), 100% accurate
mouse (because of no more m_filter), and 100% smooth mouse (because of
120hz, which means fresh mouse data on every client-frame).

I know this is probably old news to a lot of people, but I know for a
fact that there are still hordes of Doom/DosQuake loyalists out there
(like me) who haven't yet tasted of USB's sweetness.

Best of all, I can *finally* use WinQuake, and still be able to do the
super-cool mouse trickiness and consistant rocket-jumping, etc.  And
Quake2's railgun just got much cooler.  ;-)

*happy sigh*

-sq


