User:   timplan
Unread: 2
Time:   Mon, 21 Dec 1998 18:03:36 -0800
Plan:
A minor update.  Joe finished the 2.1 merge so I am off and running on
adding some new stuff to GameSpy.  Got some neat stuff planned. Nothing new
on the Java version.

I have been busy cleaning up my house (yard work, putting stuff away, etc).
For not being around much in the last month, things sure got messy.

Also been busy fighting BellSouth.  I got an additional line installed in
October.  However, one of the lines was defective and failed right after
Thanksgiving. Suddenly no dial tone.  The repair man came out and diagnosed
a line problem underground somewhere and decided I needed a terminal in the
front yard so they could get access to some additional pairs in the bundle.
I waited patiently for two weeks but no terminal. So I called on Friday.
Turns out they had "checked" the line and it worked so they canceled the
repair but failed to tell me about it.  Needless to say, I lit into them.
Saturday afternoon they started digging the hole.  Phone line works now.
Still have the hole though.  Probably will be filled in tomorrow, I hope.
It is a BIG hole.

One other note on phone lines.  BellSouth has a device which they can
install on a phone line and split it into two numbers.  Works fine with
voice but a 56K modem will get no better than 28.8K.  They put one of these
devices on my line and I had another fight before the one above.  They did
not believe I got 50.6K connections before.

Also been having fun with spammers.  Three out of four so far have lost
their internet accounts.  I don't know if it matters to them much, but it
made me feel better.  One had the audacity to tell me in the spam that
Congress does not consider it spam.  Bellsouth.net had a different opinion.