User:   timplan
Unread: 2
Plan:
GameSpy:
2.07 looks like it will be out shortly.  2.05 and 2.06 users will want to
upgrade because 2.07 fixes a stupid mistake in those versions.  Besides new
games are included in it too.
2.10 is well under way.  Jack and I are really making some changes.  Jack is
working to make things simpler, from a user perspective.  I am working to
make things harder.  Ok, not really, just more robust.  Joe was/is working
on 2.07.  This version will fix a nasty problem that has existed since at
least 1.5. You want to lock up GameSpy? Start an update.  While it is
running, click on a menu item and leave it open until it finishes.  Walla,
you can't quit GameSpy. Here is why:
GameSpy passes messages from the threads letting the main thread (the UI
thread) know when a server is completed (so it can be displayed), and when
the threads complete their work.  Works great UNLESS you happen to click a
menu then Windows will eat every message generated.  Needless to say,
GameSpy will never get the message things are done. Well, 2.10 rips that
idea right out.
Word to the innocent, don't rely on Windows message passing for any kind of
IPC or ITC, I learned the hard way on that one.
To avoid the problem, don't mess with the menus while an update is
occurring, especially when the update is nearing completion.  You can play
with the chat menus though, I think.

If you are an NT user and GameSpy never seems to finish, go into Options and
give the threads a priority boost. Seems to fix the problem but I don't know
why.  Possibly related to the problem above.

2.07 will not have Tribes support.  We are waiting for Dynamix to send us
some information regarding their protocols.  Jack really likes the game so
you can bet it will happen pretty quickly once we get the info.

GameSpy Java:
Looking quite good.  Decided to forgo many graphics right now and
concentrate on the core engine.  I have three of the six base classes
fleshed out.  The design is laid out too.  The java version will store data
slightly differently than normal GameSpy.  Normal GameSpy associates the
servers with the sources which had them.  The Java version dumps them into
the bucket associated with the game type.

Been having fun with spammers.  Three out of six so far have lost their
email accounts, perhaps more.  They probably don't care but it makes me feel
better.  One of them had the audacity to put in the message according to
Congress, it was not spam.  Since when was Congress correct about anything
technical?  BellSouth.net agreed with me. ;-)

Jags are out of the playoffs.  They were just too banged up.  I went to see
the Pittsburgh and the playoff game with New England.  They played pretty
well during those games.  Against the Jets, well...  It may finally be a
decent Super Bowl this year.

Timothy 'CMonster' Cook


