User:   jack
Unread: 1
Time:   Wed, 28 Oct 1998 01:10:58 -0800
Plan:
<b>10/28 - 12:12am</b>

This might come as a yawn to a lot of you, but it should spice up things
from the boring ol "Patch this" and "Mouse that" of .plans lately :).  I'm
leaving 3Dfx to work with Charlie Brown, Gary McTaggart, and Mike Wardwell.
This decision has been quite a long time in the making, and it's just now
come to the right time.

Before anyone wonders if I'm "jumping ship" from 3Dfx for stock or any other
reasons, that's not it at all.  I'm happy as a clam at 3Dfx, it's a great
place to work, and there's absolutely wonderful people around me.  It's just
that opportunities like this don't come around very often, and I'm following
my heart and taking a leap to do what I really want to.  3Dfx's stock price,
working conditions, or salaries had absolutely nothing to do with this
decision, so please don't be posting around stuff like "See how shitty 3dfx
is doing jack mattttttttthews is leaving its proof that my conspiracy theory
was right along."

I won't thank people at the company one at a time, as there have been too
many nice people to name off, but I want to thank them for putting up with
the arrogant bastard I am, and for the incredible amount of learning I've
done.  It's been the most incredible experience of my (albeit short) life.

For those wondering, I will still remain as I have been with GameSpy.  I
can't think of a compelling reason to leave that endeavor, as it's something
I enjoy doing and hope to continue doing for awhile.  Plus, Joe and Tim
stuck with me during a few months when I didn't know how to balance
responsibilities...  Can't let them down now :)

Hmmm, yeah, think that's about it. :)


