User:   jack
Unread: 0
Time:   Wed, 11 Nov 1998 01:21:42 -0800
Plan:
10/11/98 - 12:45am

Welp, today (yesterday really) was my last day at 3Dfx...  Man was that ever
awkward.  Oh well :)

Oh, and seems 2.05 *finally* got out the door.  Ugh.  About time :).  The
Sin support should be nice and good, and SmartSpy should be neat.  If
anyone's wondering why it has an awkward interface, it's because the current
implementation is there as a placeholder until I can do it the right way in
2.1.  Also, the SmartSpy options for filtering are only available to
registered users.  Make sure you update your server list periodically
(Tools/Updates...) as we add SmartSpy lists (they're the ones called
"GameSpy Network."  Wanna do the filtering?  Right click them and go to
"Properties."  Yes, a *real* UI will be attached in 2.1 :).  2.05 is what
happens when we really need to cram a bunch of stuff in, though we tested
this release some more than normal, but I'm sure with all the underlying
network stuff we changed for future things, that there's gonna be a crash
here and there.

Also, I noticed something quite disturbing (and STUPID) about Win98's WebTV
for Windows.  It installs its own auto dial handler, which, under heavy load
conditions (say, oh, scanning for servers in GameSpy) it'll crash in
SDDATA.DLL trying to copy the string "tvx.exe" into memory address 1 (as in
NULL + 1 byte).  If anyone can get me in touch with a Microsoft person to
fix this for the Windows service pack, I would soooo appreciate this.  This
is almost as dumb a bug as the "hey, you can only use sockets in one thread
unless you hack around" bugs in MFC for VC++ 6 (that was fun to track down)

Thanks.