[mailhub.gte.net]

Account Name:  scottm @3drealms.com
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
Scott Miller, head of Apogee Software, Ltd.
(3D Realms Entertainment is a division of Apogee)

========================================
June 30, 1997

An open letter to Elliott Chin, "Action" columnist of Computer Gaming
World:


Dear Elliott Chin:

In the just-out August 1997 issue of Computer Gaming World magazine,
in your "Action" column, you attack 3D Realms, writing that "Shadow
Warrior's ignorant stereotypes are too offensive to stomach," and
"Shadow Warrior is a perfect example of a game that is patently
offensive in its racial humor and...shows great ignorance about its
very own subject matter."

You continue berating us, stating, "3D Realms didn't even try to
create an authentic or accurate Japanese, or East Asian, atmosphere.
Ninjas are Japanese, so why would the ninja hero be called Lo Wang,
which at best could be considered a dirty joke on a Chinese-sounding
name?  And why would Lo Wang pick up fortune cookies to gain health?"

Our reply to all of your criticisms is simple: We designed the game
this way on purpose.  In fact, we thought that our mixing of Asian
cultures was so outright obvious that no one could possibly
mistakenly think it was done from ignorance.  As another reviewer of
the game wrote: "It's a slam-bang tribute to the chop-socky movies we
all grew up with."  (From the Adrenaline Vault web site.)

I think you simply missed our point with this game.  We are having
fun with the whole Asian culture, and we blatantly mixed up all the
elements and cultures to make a fun game.  We're not trying to be
National Geographic here.  It's not our goal to make an educational
game, nor a game that's necessarily accurate to our world's
conditions--certainly Duke Nukem 3D is not a realistic game!

In fact, we try to be controversial with our games, which is why we
put the mating rabbits in the game.  It's why we use R-rated
language.  It's why we had Lo Wang speak in dubbed-movie-like
English.  (He can speak his native tongue, as well as three other
Asian languages, very fluently, as we discover in the soon-to-come
novels.  It's just his English that is not so good.)

As for his name, how do you know that Lo Wang's character is not
Chinese?  You wrongly assumed Lo Wang's character is Japanese simply
because the game takes place in our fictitious version of Japan.  You
should not judge a person by his name alone.  We would certainly not
have made any similar bold assumptions based on your name, and Lo
Wang, if real, would have expected the same from you.

We thoroughly disagree that we're being racist.  That's stretching
this way too far.  We're being stereotypical by design, but not
racist.  Big difference.  Does Redneck Rampage bother you, I wonder?
Surely it's just as stereotyped as Shadow Warrior.  The same issue of
CGW wrote about Redneck Rampage: "With more gut-quivering belches and
cheek-slapping butt whistles than a good ol' boy bloated on chicken
fried steak..."  What about the Superfly Johnson character from Ion
Storm's coming Daikatana?  Talk about a stereotypical name for an
African-American!  How about Tomb Raider's impossibly proportioned
Lara Croft?  Where are your criticisms for these games?

Next time I recommend you take the time to give us a call and see
what our side of the story might be?  A little fact checking and
background research never hurt anyone.  (By the way, 3D Realms has a
space in it, and Blood is not a 3D Realms game as wrongly stated in
CGW