Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
March 11, 1998

It's been cold in Dallas the past week.  I'm talkin' 30 - 40 degrees--coat
weather!  I get in my car to come to work around 9pm, drive a full mile to
work, and the heat never does kick on during the drive.  So I freeze the whole
way.  Why can't car heaters have built-in heating elements, like a blow dryer,
which are activated until the engine heats up?!  Someone needs to take this
idea and make a million bucks with it...

========================================
March 6, 1998

I read every printed game publication (as well as all the top gaming web
sites, but that's not what this topic is about today).  It's part of my job,
and a legitimate job hazard.  Reading six reviews of Men in Black makes me
wish I could shoot myself with that movie's Forget Ray.  Unfortunately, I must
accept certain and permanent brain damage.

For avid readers like me, PC game magazines overlap in their coverage too
much.  This isn't a criticism, it's just a fact.  After all, they all cover
the same games and news items.  However, I'd like to see more uniqueness among
the many magazines so that they're not all clones.  (I finally get to throw
the word clone back at them. )  Here are my ideas:

o  More interviews and profiles -- Interviews could play a bigger role in
every magazine.  As a game fan, even before starting Apogee, I loved to read
interviews with developers and top game players.  Next Generation magazine is
the only publication that excels at in-depth interviews each issue. 
Interviews and developer profiles are a ripe areas for magazines to be unique
each issue.

o  More editorial-style columns -- Many magazines do well in this area
already, but I still wish there were more of these columns.  PC Gamer is the
best at this, with around 10 specific columns each issue, while CGW has only
3-4 columns.  Columns give writers more freedom to editorialize and write
about subjects that are probably not being covered by every other magazine. 
I'd like to see a column that reviews gaming web sites.  I'd also like to see
more guest columnists from industry insiders, though I know that in reality
this may be hard to do.

o  More feature articles -- Rarely do I see truly inventive feature articles
in game magazines.  Typically, they're just game round-ups in a specific genre
(sports games or 3D shooters), or a hardware round-up, such as the best 3D
accelerators.  Once again, I have to point to Next Generation as the best in
this department, because they have, on average, the most original feature
articles, such as a recent issue which had a feature titled "Girl Trouble,"
that examined all the coming games with females stars, undoubtedly influenced
by Lara Croft's success--a great 5-page article.  The same issue also had a
lengthy original article titled, "America's Power Players," profiling over 30
of the game industry's top movers and shakers.

o  Slam more games that are bad, make examples of them -- use the full 0% to
100% rating scale.  There's no doubt that the European mags rate games harsher
than America mags do.  In Europe, a score of 70% is about par, but in the USA
my estimate is that it's 10 points higher on average.

o  More investigative reporting.  For example, why in hell Myst is the best
selling game ever, and has been in the top 10 for four unprecedented years! 
Scully and Mulder might need to help on this one!

o  Finally, magazines can help differentiate themselves by injecting more
personality, specifically of the writers themselves.  This is done very well
in European magazines, but in USA magazines the writers are rarely involved in
the story.  I think specific magazines will get a more loyal following if the
writers themselves had their pictures and editorial comments involved in
stories, and more first-person stories.  PC Gamer does this to some extent,
but that's probably because their sister magazine in England has influenced
it.  It seems everyone I know likes European game magazines better, and I
think this point is a key reason.

Weekly puzzle:  Two identical tanks full of equal amounts of water are being
drained at the same time.  One tank has a single circular hole, two inches
wide, and the other tank has three circular holes, each one inch wide.  Which
tank will empty first?

========================================
Feb. 27, 1998

Doing a Duke movie is beyond cool.  Our deal with Threshold gives us creative
control and input, and we're doing our best to make sure this movie is not
another Judge Dredd or Batman and Robin.  It's pretty amazing talking to
Hollywood big shots and having them ask you for your opinion on everything
from who should play Duke, where should the movie take place, and story ideas. 
There's actually a lot of common ground between making movies and games.

I can't give away details yet, but the Duke movie is not the only one we're
working on!  Please don't email me with guess--I will not acknowledge correct
guesses until the news has been made public, which should be in about a month. 
I must say, though, that our publisher, GTIS, has been doing a terrific job
exploiting our games in other media.

Weekly Puzzle:  Not really a puzzle, but a cool question I recently heard: 
What was the first man-made object to go faster than the speed of sound?  The
answer will be on www.3dportal.com sometime today.

========================================
Feb. 20, 1998

I officially like Intel, and I can tell you over a dozen expensive
reasons why.  :)

I recently saw the following exchange in an online interview:

Question to CEO of large game publisher:  "When being at the top of such a
huge company, do you even have the time to play all of the games [your
company] creates?"

Answer from CEO:  "Not really. I do a few hours of each game, but that's it."

I think this reveals a key problem with most publishers, and possibly many
larger development houses:  The top person or people--the people who make the
important game development decisions--do not play games and probably are out
of touch with game design.

I think if you look around at the developers who release the best games,
you'll see that the owners and top decision makers at these companies are
intimately involved with game design, and have a long track record of game
design.  That's the way it is at Ion Storm, id, Ritual, 3D Realms, TRI, Epic,
Blizzard, Volition, and many others I'm aware of.

As a board member of the Gathering of Developers, I think this will be one of
the Gathering's key strengths:  the fact that the board of directors is mostly
comprised of developer members who have a long history of being in the
trenches of game developmen.  This unique board setup should result in a far
most consistent line-up of successful titles.

Duke Nukem:  Time to Kill -- News has leaked and spread rapidly about this
title, which is being developed by n-Space (Playstation version) and Eurocom
(N64 version).  This title has been in development for nearly 10 months, and
is already looking quite fantastic.  And there's still a *lot* of development
left to do, so the end result should be one of the better polished console
titles this year.

3D Realms is working closely with n-Space and Eurocom to design these games,
and they're going to have all the edge and coolness that players expect from a
Duke game, including tons of new in-jokes and new Duke speech.  And since
they're being developed specifically for the console market (no PC version
will ever exist), we're able to take advantage of all the unique features of
the consoles. The game's technology, even at this stage, is ahead of the
technology I've seen in Tomb Raider II, especially in the area of cool special
effects.  For example, the Duke's flame thrower effect is easily the best I've
ever seen in any video game.

Okay, enough horn-tootin', here's the weekly puzzle, which was submitted by
several people:  You are in a room with three light switches.  Two of the
switches do nothing and the other turns on a light in a nearby enclosed room. 
All of the switches are currently in the "off" position.  You can not see into
the room to tell when the light is on.  If you can only go into the room once,
can you tell which switch is the one that controls the light?

The answer will be at www.3dportal.com, a very cool web site dedicated to news
about 3D Realms and our games.  Bonus tip:  Do not rent Event Horizon or
Father's Day.  Chasing Amy is a lot of fun, though.

========================================
Feb. 13, 1998

Been a very, very busy week, with many positive things happening.

Weekly puzzle:

While exploring an uncharted jungle island, Ms. Croft was captured by hostile
natives who said she could make one final statement before being killed, and
this statement would determine her manner of death.  If the statement she made
was false, she would be boiled in water.  If her statement was true, she would
be cooked in oil.  (Either way, making a tasty dish for the natives.) 
However, Ms. Croft, not one for being eaten, made a statement that saved her
life.  What final statement did she make?

Please do not email me.  The answer will be at www.3dportal.com typically
within a few hours.

========================================
Feb. 9, 1998

Interplay recently released Descent to Undermountain, a D&D game based on the
Descent engine.  Here's their web page that covers the game:
http://www.dragonplay.com/under.html.

In an extensive features list, they include the following bullet points:

o  "Increased the number of texture maps the engine is capable of handling to
3000 or almost unlimited (compared with 150 texture maps for the average
action game like Duke Nukem and Quake)"

Sorry, but Duke Nukem 3D used way more than 150 texture maps--closer to 2000.

o  "Can have three times as many creatures within the game screen at one time
compared with Duke Nukem or Quake"

Not compared to Duke Nukem, which was sprite-based, a method that is far
faster than polygon rendered characters.

o  "Descent engine remains the best rendering 3-D engine ever"

  Descent to Undermountain's engine is *not* as advanced as the Quake
engine.

I guess these exaggerated and misleading features are needed to hide the fact
that the game has been poorly rated.  GameSpot, for example, slammed the game
giving it 3.7 of 10 stars:
http://www.gamespot.com/rpg/undermou/index.html

To any publisher wishing to compare their game with ours, all I ask is to get
the comparisons somewhere close to correct.  The best comparison is the sales
figures--let's give Descent to Undermountain a year of sales, and then compare
that with Duke's first year of sales and Quake's first year.  That'll show how
DtoU really stacks up.  ;)

========================================
Feb. 6, 1998

There's rarely a day that goes by that I'm not asked how to get a job as a
game developer.  I typically answer that it's a combination of perseverance,
talent and luck, in that order, and then I point the person to a few game
development web sites.  This answer often results in several follow up
questions.  So, I bit the bullet (quite tasty, actually) and spent half an
hour on a more detailed answer that I can use as a standard reply, and
hopefully it covers most of the bases.  Since this information might be useful
to those who have written me before, and to those who never will, I'll posting
it here as a one-time shot.

How to get into the game industry as a developer:

[1]  Unless you love to play games, don't bother.  Unless you've played a
hundred plus games, you'll have little chance.  Playing games, studying their
gameplay, strengths and weaknesses, is like going to game developer college. 
I've spent 22 years in this college, and I'll never graduate--no one ever
does.  Don't feel like you've ever learned all there is to know about game
design.

[2]  Pay your dues.  This includes playing games, but it's much more.  If you
want to be a level designer, then design levels.  If you want to be an artist,
then draw art.  If you want to be a programmer, then learn C, and program
things that interest you, like small games and graphics demos.  Most of the
best game developers I know learned very little about their craft in school,
they were mostly self-taught.  This isn't to say school/college isn't
important, but the best developers, those who are passionate and would be
doing it anyway as a hobby, extended their talent and knowledge by being
self-motivated and by devouring, learning and living their passion on their
own time.  For example, would we ever hire a programmer who doesn't own a
computer at home?  I think not.

[3]  Take the initiative.  It's up to you to develop friends and contacts
within the industry--a people network.  If you look at most of the people who
have been hired (especially off the Internet), they were people who were
proactive in letting it be known they had talent and were available.  They got
involved with the game community somehow.

Try to get involved in game development on a amateur level.  Release your work
(levels, mods, art) freely on the web.  Contact game sites and fan sites to
distribute and write about your work.  Doing this is a great way to get
noticed by real development companies.

[4]  Sending samples and/or demos is the key to getting hired!  A programmer
must have several impressive demos to show, an artist needs a portfolio, and a
level designer needs a