Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
March 20, 1998

Continue (Y/N)?

Undoubtedly, this is one of the worst options ever to appear in arcade gaming
from a game fairness and gameplay standpoint.

I can't remember which game first allowed the player to continue by popping in
more quarters (Tempest?), but the game designer responsible for that feature
probably had no idea that he opened up a can of slimy worms.  This option from
hell allows game designers to develop games that are nearly impossible to
master, because they know the player will still have a chance to see the
game's end by continuing--and the more continues, the more money the game
makes.

In the golden years of the arcade industry ('78 - '82), it was possible to
drop one quarter in Pac Man, Space Invaders, Asteroids, Missile Command,
Robotron, Battlezone, Centipede, Q-bert, Defender, or a dozen other hit games
and play forever if you were good enough (which might have taken $100 worth of
plays to get that good).  The goal of playing games in those days was to get
good enough to play however long you wanted on a single quarter.  As a gaming
addict back then, I mastered almost all the above games (except Q-bert and Pac
Man--I wasn't into girly games ), and often awed spectators with my
ego-driven ability to show off while playing games, and then walk away with 20
extra lives still at my disposal (always walking off slow enough to hear the
crowd whisper, "That guy was good!").  Ah, the good ol' days.  

Then came "Continue (Y/N)?" and the wheels flew off.

Suddenly games became almost impossibly hard, but by allowing players to
continue it really didn't matter to the arcade game makers.  In fact, in the
short term games probably made more money because players kept continuing, so
as not to waste the progress they already made.

An example game that comes to mind is the semi-sequel to Robotron: Smash TV. 
I dare anyone to say they finished this game on one coin, or even played for
more than 15 minutes before "Game Over" flashed in their face.  If it weren't
for the continue option it was impossible to reach the higher levels--how
unfair is that from a gameplay standpoint!  Without the continue option at
their disposal the designers of Smash TV would have had to make a fair game,
one that could probably be mastered on one coin.

The continue option became standard for almost all games, and with it vanished
the era of games designed fair enough to be finished on a single play.

Another thing that has hurt arcade gaming, especially in terms of variety, was
advancements in more realistic graphics, but that's another story...

Weekly puzzle:  Devious Dave had just $10, but he needed $15 for his cab fare
home. A plan he brewed:  He went to the nearby pawn shop and pawned his $10
for $7.  He then met Witless Walter who bought the $10 pawn slip for $8,
giving Dave the $15 he needed for the cab ride.  Since money doesn't come
freely, who is out the extra $5, and why?  (Answer at www.3dportal.com.)

========================================
March 13, 1998

Gameplay:  a word that Webster doesn't yet acknowledge, but the most important
word in computer gaming today.  Here's a brief look at gameplay by someone
who's been trying to understand it for about 20 years...

The word gameplay didn't exist in the 80's.  Instead we used phrases like
"playability," "depth," "fun-factor" and "game design."  In recent years the
phrase "game play" caught on, and is now mostly seen as a single word.

But what is it, and did it exist before computer games?  Does chess have
gameplay, or Monopoly or Poker?  What about football and baseball?

The answer is Yes.  Gameplay is how all of the various *rules* and
*possibilities* of the game interact and balance with each other, and allow
the player to formulate strategies, tactics, decisions and trade-offs in
beating the game (or the opponent).  But boiled down, gameplay is simply the
rules of the game, and the playing environment and pieces those rules control.

A game with good gameplay allows for numerous playing strategies and
approaches, with no single strategy clearly being the best.  This it what's
known as balanced gameplay, and it's one of the most difficult tasks in game
development, typically requiring 100's of hours playing the nearly finished
game, adjusting the rules until they're just right.

The game designer's goal is to present a difficult, but not impossible
challedge.  The biggest obstacle to this challenge is that every player plays
with a different skill set, and it's very hard for a game to cater to a wide
range of skill sets.  (User-selectable kill or difficulty levels are a poor
attempt at compensating for different player skill sets, but an easy method
for developers to hack into their games.)

Great gameplay allows the player seemingly endless avenues to explore. 
Gameplay gives the player choices that involve trade-offs, such as sacrificing
a Bishop to give your Queen an open lane to attack, or moving the Bishop to a
safe spot that still blocks the Queen's line of attack.  A game like checkers
has less gameplay than chess, because there are less rules and less types of
pieces, and this make checkers a far less interesting game.  It lacks depth
because it lacks the number of possibilities relative to chess.

In 3D shooters, for example, possibilities are derived from the number of
levels, the various weapons, power-ups, enemies, puzzles, player-character's
abilites (jumping, ducking, strafing, etc.) and so on.  The game's rules
define how all of these possibilities interact with each other.  Possibilities
and rules, this is the essense of gameplay.

FMV (full motion video) games failed because they lacked possibilities, one of
the two key components of gameplay.  In general, FMV games offer very few
options for players to develop personal and varied strategies.

It's interesting that games in the late 70's and early 80's (when graphics
where often black/white or just 4 to 16 colors, with low resolution) had
superior gameplay than many games (most games maybe?) nowadays.  That's
because the designers then were not distracted by pretty graphics, and they
couldn't rely on graphics to sell the game--these designers were *forced* to
make games that treated gameplay as the top priority.

There's a lot more to gameplay than explored here, but this hits the most
essential point of what gameplay really is:  The interaction of rules and
possibilities.

Weekly Puzzle:  With only a quick glance (no calculators), which column has
the higher sum total:

987654321	123456789
087654321	123456780
007654321	123456700
000654321	123456000
000054321	123450000
000004321	123400000
000000321	123000000
000000021	120000000
000000001	100000000


Answers to all puzzles posted here are at www.3dportal.com.

========================================
March 11, 1998

It's been cold in Dallas the past week.  I'm talkin' 30 - 40 degrees--coat
weather!  I get in my car to come to work around 9am, drive a full mile to
work, and the heat never does kick on during the drive.  So I freeze the whole
way.  Why can't car heaters have built-in heating elements, like a blow dryer,
which are activated until the engine heats up?!  Someone needs to take this
idea and make a million bucks with it...

========================================
March 6, 1998

I read every printed game publication (as well as all the top gaming web
sites, but that's not what this topic is about today).  It's part of my job,
and a legitimate job hazard.  Reading six reviews of Men in Black makes me
wish I could shoot myself with that movie's Forget Ray.  Unfortunately, I must
accept certain and permanent brain damage.

For avid readers like me, PC game magazines overlap in their coverage too
much.  This isn't a criticism, it's just a fact.  After all, they all cover
the same games and news items.  However, I'd like to see more uniqueness among
the many magazines so that they're not all clones.  (I finally get to throw
the word clone back at them. )  Here are my ideas:

o  More interviews and profiles -- Interviews could play a bigger role in
every magazine.  As a game fan, even before starting Apogee, I loved to read
interviews with developers and top game players.  Next Generation magazine is
the only publication that excels at in-depth interviews each issue. 
Interviews and developer profiles are a ripe areas for magazines to be unique
each issue.

o  More editorial-style columns -- Many magazines do well in this area
already, but I still wish there were more of these columns.  PC Gamer is the
best at this, with around 10 specific columns each issue, while CGW has only
3-4 columns.  Columns give writers more freedom to editorialize and write
about subjects that are probably not being covered by every other magazine. 
I'd like to see a column that reviews gaming web sites.  I'd also like to see
more guest columnists from industry insiders, though I know that in reality
this may be hard to do.

o  More feature articles -- Rarely do I see truly inventive feature articles
in game magazines.  Typically, they're just game round-ups in a specific genre
(sports games or 3D shooters), or a hardware round-up, such as the best 3D
accelerators.  Once again, I have to point to Next Generation as the best in
this department, because they have, on average, the most original feature
articles, such as a recent issue which had a feature titled "Girl Trouble,"
that examined all the coming games with females stars, undoubtedly influenced
by Lara Croft's success--a great 5-page article.  The same issue also had a
lengthy original article titled, "America's Power Players," profiling over 30
of the game industry's top movers and shakers.

o  Slam more games that are bad, make examples of them -- use the full 0% to
100% rating scale.  There's no doubt that the European mags rate games harsher
than America mags do.  In Europe, a score of 70% is about par, but in the USA
my estimate is that it's 10 points higher on average.

o  More investigative reporting.  For example, why in hell Myst is the best
selling game ever, and has been in the top 10 for four unprecedented years! 
Scully and Mulder might need to help on this one!

o  Finally, magazines can help differentiate themselves by injecting more
personality, specifically of the writers themselves.  This is done very well
in European magazines, but in USA magazines the writers are rarely involved in
the story.  I think specific magazines will get a more loyal following if the
writers themselves had their pictures and editorial comments involved in
stories, and more first-person stories.  PC Gamer does this to some extent,
but that's probably because their sister magazine in England has influenced
it.  It seems everyone I know likes European game magazines better, and I
think this point is a key reason.

Weekly puzzle:  Two identical tanks full of equal amounts of water are being
drained at the same time.  One tank has a single circular hole, two inches
wide, and the other tank has three circular holes, each one inch wide.  Which
tank will empty first?

========================================
Feb. 27, 1998

Doing a Duke movie is beyond cool.  Our deal with Threshold gives us creative
control and input, and we're doing our best to make sure this movie is not
another Judge Dredd or Batman and Robin.  It's pretty amazing talking to
Hollywood big shots and having them ask you for your opinion on everything
from who should play Duke, where should the movie take place, and story ideas. 
There's actually a lot of common ground between making movies and games.

I can't give away details yet, but the Duke movie is not the only one we're
working on!  Please don't email me with guess--I will not acknowledge correct
guesses until the news has been made public, which should be in about a month. 
I must say, though, that our publisher, GTIS, has been doing a terrific job
exploiting our games in other media.

Weekly Puzzle:  Not really a puzzle, but a cool question I recently heard: 
What was the first man-made object to go faster than the speed of sound?  The
answer will be on www.3dportal.com sometime today.

========================================
Feb. 20, 1998

I recently saw the following exchange in an online interview:

Question to CEO of large game publisher:  "When being at the top of such a
huge company, do you even have the time to play all of the games [your
company] creates?"

Answer from CEO:  "Not really. I do a few hours of each game, but that's it."

I think this reveals a key problem with most publishers, and possibly many
larger development houses:  The top person or people--the people who make the
important game development decisions--do not play games and probably are out
of touch with game design.

I think if you look around at the developers who release the best games,
you'll see that the owners and top decision makers at these companies are
intimately involved with game design, and have a long track record of game
design.  That's the way it is at Ion Storm, id, Ritual, 3D Realms, TRI, Epic,
Blizzard, Volition, and many others I'm aware of.

As a board member of the Gathering of Developers, I think this will be one of
the Gathering's key strengths:  the fact that the board of directors is mostly
comprised of developer members who have a long history of being in the
trenches of game developmen.  This unique board setup should result