Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
April 10, 1998

Well, Apogee's plan files are working again.  I know some of you must be
disappointed.  ;)

Went skiing last weekend at Taos, my first trip in two years.  This is the
mountain where four years ago George Broussard slipped and fell 500 feet down
a narrow, 45 degree inclined chute, fracturing a few bones and ripping his ski
suit to shreds.  I watched with horror from above thinking he was surely
dead--but then I thought, hmmm, Apogee is All Mine Now.  Alas, George lived
somehow.  The ski patrol said he should have died and that it was a miracle he
didn't slam into the dense trees on each side of the chute, which also curved
on the way down.  Anyway, this trip we skied down that chutes few times.  I
slipped once falling head first, slid about 20 feet and managed to stop
myself.  Let me tell you, the rest of the way down was a sphincter-tightened
experience.

Also had a bad accident cruising a warp speed down a back bowl, wiped out, and
the guy right behind me plowed into me at a similar speed flying head first
about 10 feet.  Amazingly, I didn't get hurt except for a small pain on my
right wrist, which I ignored for the rest of the day.  That night I noticed my
right hand glove had a huge slash in it, soaked with blood.  This, as you
might guess, caused me to examine my wrist, where on the underside I noticed a
bloody mess coagulated around a nasty gash.  Had I noticed it earlier I might
have gone for stitches, but oh well, too late by that time.

Can't wait to go skiing next year...

The Puzzle:  "Jackdaws love my big sphinx of quartz"

What is so special about the above quoted sentence (ignoring the fact that it
doesn't make much sense)?

========================================
March 27, 1998

I've gotten a very good response to my recent plans about gameplay and the old
days of the arcade industry, and I've been asked to continue with similar
updates.

First, so you know where I'm coming from, I started playing arcade games in
1976, at the age of 15, but it wasn't until Space Invaders came out that I
become a hopeless addict, spending my last quarter playing arcade games.  This
led to several jobs working at arcades in the early 80's, when the industry
was booming and there were arcades on every corner like there are McDonald's
today (this was the pre-Chicken McNugget's era).

I met my future Apogee partner, George Broussard, in high school in 1978,
where we both hung out in the computer room with a teletype time-share system,
and an Apple II.  We became friends and ended up working at the same arcades
in the early 80's.

George and I became top experts at many arcade games, and even entered several
tournaments.  In one of the biggest Dallas-area tournaments, George took first
place and I got second, out of over 100 competitors.

In those days a top players would often carry around a sheet of paper with
their best scores written down for all the games they were good at.  I've
still got my old papers somewhere.  We'd bump into other champion class
players and compare scores.  George and I would usually have the better
scores, so it occurred to us that we should start an official league of top
game players, and have an official high score database (too bad the Web wasn't
around back then--it would have made it easy for us to do this).

In '82, we formed the NVGPA (National Video Game Players Assoc.), and we were
writing a newsletter, but then the opportunity came for us to write a strategy
book on how to beat the top arcade games of the day, so we pursued that. too. 
We really thought the book was going to make us rich.  I remember running the
book's potential sale's figures though my mind:  In each of the top 250 cities
there must be a least an average of 10,000 game players, and if just 100 of
them bought our book that would be 25,000 sales, plus in all the remaining
cities we should count on at least 5 more books sold in each, which should add
another 25,000 sales.  And with each sale george and I get $1 each.  Wow,
that's more money than we can make in 5 real years of work--we'd be rich!

But in the six months it took us to write our book about 20 others came out,
and ours didn't make a dent.  I think less than 1000 sold, and that didn't
even cover the printing expenses.  We saw not a penny for our work.

However, I used the book to get a job as a weekly columnist at the Dallas
Morning News, where I wrote for four years about arcade, home video, and
computer games.  And this in turn opened the door to write about 100 articles
and reviews for the top national gaming magazines during the 80's, such as
COMPUTE!, one of the biggest general computing mags of it's time.

George and I, during the mid- and late-80's kept buying all the new computers
(IBM PC, PET, C-64, Amiga, etc) and we continued to code our own games, and
even sell them to small publishers, like Keypunch Software (run by the same
guy who nows runs WizardsWorks, a division of GT Interactive--small world!).

These early years taught us a lot about games, gameplay and gave us a good
"shit filter" about what ideas should make it into a game, and which
shouldn't.  I think of all those 1000's of dollars I spent on games back then
as tuition to video game college, which I'm now cashing in on.

That's a brief background check.  Soon, I'll write about the negative effects
that realistic graphics have had on the game industry.

Puzzle:  Duke and Lara were shooting their pistols at a target 250 yards away
(long, but challenging).  They each took 100 shots and, amazingly, each hit
the target 50 times.  After lunch they went back for some more practice:  Duke
took 50 more shots but only hit the target once, while Lara took 89 more shots
and hit the target 13 times.  Who had the better day hitting the target?

3D Portal (www.3dportal.com) has the answer.

========================================
March 26, 1998

The Codie Awards, an event by the Software Publisher's Association (SPA), has
given game awards a bad name yet another year.  You can check out their awards
at www.spa.org, but I recommend not wasting your time.  As a sampling, here
are the five games nominated for the "Best Arcade/Action Software Game"
category:

1. Disney's Hercules Action Game, Disney Interactive

2. Flight Unlimited II, Looking Glass Technologies

3. Machine Hunter, MGM Home Entertainment

4. Star Trek Starfleet Academy, Interplay Productions

5. Claw, Monolith Productions Inc.

Okay, let's look at this list closely.  I'm squinting pretty hard, but gosh, I
don't see Tomb Raider 2.  And come to think of it, I'm having trouble spotting
Jedi Knight.  Hey, and where's Quake 2?

Are we to believe that Machine Hunter (a game, btw, that MGM itself knows is
doggie poo poo, based on comments I've seen an MGM official make in a British
magazine) and Claw (a game that had a difficult time finding a publisher!) are
better than Jedi Knight and Quake 2?!?!  Also, is Claw, a platform game,
better that Abe's Oddyssy?  I don't think so!

Did I miss something that the SPA nomination committee saw in these
nominations?  Am I just totally off the mark here?!

And, am I to be brainwashed into believing that the winner of this category,
Interplay's Starfleet Academy, is the best action game of 1997?  Everyone I
know who bought this game said it was only so-so.  Interplay officials must be
laughing their asses off with this award--an undeserved gift from heaven. 
(Not that I would compare the Codie's with heaven, that's going in the wrong
direction.)

Last year the Codie awards blew this same category by not having Duke Nukem 3D
or Quake on the list.  I said it then, and I'll say it now:  The Codie Awards
should be ignored.  They are the worst awards in our industry, a sham and a
shame.  I just hope that any publication or game web site that reports on
these awards also reports on how inaccurate they are.

I noticed today that Geoff Keighley, at www.gameslice.com, also talks about
the Codie Awards in his editorial today.  I recommend checking out what he
says, assuming you want to see the Codie's slammed even more.

Finally, when I spell checked this document it highlighted "Codie" and gave me
the option to Replace or Ignore.  How fitting.

========================================
March 20, 1998

Continue (Y/N)?

Undoubtedly, this is one of the worst options ever to appear in arcade gaming
from a game fairness and gameplay standpoint.

I can't remember which game first allowed the player to continue by popping in
more quarters (Tempest?), but the game designer responsible for that feature
probably had no idea that he opened up a can of slimy worms.  This option from
hell allows game designers to develop games that are nearly impossible to
master, because they know the player will still have a chance to see the
game's end by continuing--and the more continues, the more money the game
makes.

In the golden years of the arcade industry ('78 - '82), it was possible to
drop one quarter in Pac Man, Space Invaders, Asteroids, Missile Command,
Robotron, Battlezone, Centipede, Q-bert, Defender, or a dozen other hit games
and play forever if you were good enough (which might have taken $100 worth of
plays to get that good).  The goal of playing games in those days was to get
good enough to play however long you wanted on a single quarter.  As a gaming
addict back then, I mastered almost all the above games (except Q-bert and Pac
Man--I wasn't into girly games ), and often awed spectators with my
ego-driven ability to show off while playing games, and then walk away with 20
extra lives still at my disposal (always walking off slow enough to hear the
crowd whisper, "That guy was good!").  Ah, the good ol' days.  

Then came "Continue (Y/N)?" and the wheels flew off.

Suddenly games became almost impossibly hard, but by allowing players to
continue it really didn't matter to the arcade game makers.  In fact, in the
short term games probably made more money because players kept continuing, so
as not to waste the progress they already made.

An example game that comes to mind is the semi-sequel to Robotron: Smash TV. 
I dare anyone to say they finished this game on one coin, or even played for
more than 15 minutes before "Game Over" flashed in their face.  If it weren't
for the continue option it was impossible to reach the higher levels--how
unfair is that from a gameplay standpoint!  Without the continue option at
their disposal the designers of Smash TV would have had to make a fair game,
one that could probably be mastered on one coin.

The continue option became standard for almost all games, and with it vanished
the era of games designed fair enough to be finished on a single play.

Another thing that has hurt arcade gaming, especially in terms of variety, was
advancements in more realistic graphics, but that's another story...

Weekly puzzle:  Devious Dave had just $10, but he needed $15 for his cab fare
home. A plan he brewed:  He went to the nearby pawn shop and pawned his $10
for $7.  He then met Witless Walter who bought the $10 pawn slip for $8,
giving Dave the $15 he needed for the cab ride.  Since money doesn't come
freely, who is out the extra $5, and why?  (Answer at www.3dportal.com.)

========================================
March 13, 1998

Gameplay:  a word that Webster doesn't yet acknowledge, but the most important
word in computer gaming today.  Here's a brief look at gameplay by someone
who's been trying to understand it for about 20 years...

The word gameplay didn't exist in the 80's.  Instead we used phrases like
"playability," "depth," "fun-factor" and "game design."  In recent years the
phrase "game play" caught on, and is now mostly seen as a single word.

But what is it, and did it exist before computer games?  Does chess have
gameplay, or Monopoly or Poker?  What about football and baseball?

The answer is Yes.  Gameplay is how all of the various *rules* and
*possibilities* of the game interact and balance with each other, and allow
the player to formulate strategies, tactics, decisions and trade-offs in
beating the game (or the opponent).  But boiled down, gameplay is simply the
rules of the game, and the playing environment and pieces those rules control.

A game with good gameplay allows for numerous playing strategies and
approaches, with no single strategy clearly being the best.  This it what's
known as balanced gameplay, and it's one of the most difficult tasks in game
development, typically requiring 100's of hours playing the nearly finished
game, adjusting the rules until they're just right.

The game designer's goal is to present a difficult, but not impossible
challedge.  The biggest obstacle to this challenge is that every player plays
with a different skill set, and it's very hard for a game to cater to a wide
range of skill sets.  (User-selectable kill or difficulty levels are a poor
attempt at compensating for different player skill sets, but an easy method
for developers to hack into their games.)

Great gameplay allows the player seemingly endless avenues to explore. 
Gameplay gives the player choices that involve trade-offs, such as sacrificing
a Bishop to give your Queen an open lane to attack, or moving the Bishop to a
safe spot that still blocks the Queen's line of attack.  A game like checkers
has less gameplay than chess, because there are less rules and less types of
pieces, and this make checkers a far le