Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
April 19, 1998

A highly reliable press source sent me the following message (I got permission
to post it publicly, not revealing his or her identity):

"I heard that Activision is TOTALLY falling apart.  One guy I spoke to
said that within 2 months there will be no internal developers left.  He
called it a 'mass exodus.'  All the internal guys are getting really pissed
off with all these big deals for external developers."

Why do I mention this?  In a recent MultiMedia Wire story (www.mmwire.com)
Activision touts strongly that they "offer the best financial package to
third-party developers," and that they help make third-party developers
"stars."

Apparently, in doing so they're neglecting their internal developers, who have
figured out there's more money to be made as a third-party developer working
for Activision than in-house there.

Also, this particular claim (making the developer the star--not the publisher)
is lifted straight from the Gathering of Developers play book (admitted
afterward by a Senior VP of Activision in an email I have on file).

Finally, in an April 15th Activision press release, Activision's CEO pours on
the marketing speak, stating:  "QUAKE II remains parked at the top of the
worldwide PC best-seller charts."  Well, I keep track of the PC Data charts
(www.pcdata.com) and I've yet to see Quake "parked at the top" in the number
one position.  I've seen the charts up to February, at which point Q2 was
parked at #5, same as it was in January.  Back in December it reached #2,
behind Riven, but that's the best showing I've seen.  This is not a knock
against id or Quake, just Activision's s-t-r-e-t-c-h-e-d marketing claim.


Is it any wonder marketing gets a bad name.

========================================
April 17, 1998

*  This week we saw a very impressive technology demo for the coming N64-only
Duke Nukem game.  This game was originally going to be titled Time to Kill
(like the Playstation version), but we're now thinking that making it a
different game is a better way to go, that way players with both Playstations
and N64s might buy both games--yes, we admit it:  money is law.  ;)

*  It seems that overwhelmingly people (who emailed me at least) agree with my
plan opinion yesterday about the name of Dominion:  Storm of Gift 3.  One
person wrote, "What if Starcraft was named "Starcraft:  Thunder over Carpet
5"?"  I've heard that "Storm over Gift 3" references a Larry Niven book, but
if only 1 in 200 people get the reference, who's the joke on?

I prefer simple, short names.  When a name is too long it ends up getting
abbreviated, and that's not good marketing for the game because you then have
two brands (the full name and the abbreviated version) that split the mind
share that a single brand would otherwise have.  I could go on for hours about
this subject, but instead I'll refer people to a great book on the subject: 
"Positioning:  The Battle for Your Mind" by Al Ries and Jack Trout.

By the way, anyone wanting to bash Apogee or 3D Realms game names in public,
feel free to do so.  We don't mind the criticism, and in most cases we'll
agree with you.  We have learned a lot in the past several years, and many of
our older games could have been named better.

*  Puzzle:  Two mothers and two daughters went fishing.  They ended up
catching on big fish, one small fish, and one dopefish (3 fish total).  Since
only three fish were caught, how is it possible that each women took home a
single fish?

========================================
April 16, 1998

*  No offense to Ion Storm and the talented people that I know work there, but
I have yet to talk to anyone (press, players, and developers) who think that
"Dominion:  Storm Over Gift 3" is a good game title.  Beyond this name being
meaningless to those who haven't played the game (a.k.a. potential customers),
this name suggests that it might involve Santa Clause getting snowed in on
Christmas Eve.  What was the thinking there!?  Was someone's sh!t filter
broken?  The Emperor has no clothes.  ;)

I'm probably going to take some heat for posting this, but I guarantee that
most people reading this are nodding their head in agreement.

And just to make it clear, I'm only talking about the game's name,
not the game itself.

And to be fair, Apogee has had a few stinkers, too, like Boppin' and
Halloween Harry (which we had enough sense rename, Alien Carnage, after which
the sales improved).

*  The most recent issue of Edge magazine claims that R-Type, a 1987 arcade
shooter (like our recently released Stargunner) is the best arcade game of all
time because of all of its innovations.  I agree R-Type was a masterpiece, but
Forgotten Worlds, released around the same time, was equally innovative, if
not more so.  Unfortunately, FW was not nearly as popular and is too often
overlooked.

*  Trivia question:  What was the first arcade game with faked 3D color
graphics (via scaling sprites)?  Hint:  I think this game was released in 1980
or earlier.

========================================
April 11, 1998

The May/June 1998 issue of PC Games (not PC Gamer) magazine has a column by
"Blade" entitled, "Quake-Killers Don't Exist."

There are a few points I disagree with in this column, but the one I'll
comment on here is the statement that Prey "loiters on the vaporware list." 
The writer failed to do due diligence before leaping to this conclusion.  If
he would have contacted us, he would have discovered that Prey was conceived
as a game with gigantic goals, to push most 3D shooter standards to new
heights.  This doesn't happen by making a game in 12 to 18 months, a typical
development period for PC games.  When you're striving for something truly
special, different and epic, it takes more time than an average or even above
average game.

We are not bothered that Prey is taking an extraordinary amount of time to be
developed.  Gamers should be encouraged that we're doing our best with this
game and diving into uncharted territories of gameplay and content.  On top of
everything else, we've never indicated when the game would be released, so how
can it be vaporware?  Does every game that takes over two years to create
automatically get on this writer's vaporware list?  Are the coming Star Wars
movies long overdue vaporfilm?  They may be, but I'll be first in line just
the same.

========================================
April 10, 1998

Well, Apogee's plan files are working again.  I know some of you must be
disappointed.  ;)

Went skiing last weekend at Taos, my first trip in two years.  This is the
mountain where four years ago George Broussard slipped and fell 500 feet down
a narrow, 45 degree inclined chute, fracturing a few bones and ripping his ski
suit to shreds.  I watched with horror from above thinking he was surely
dead--but then I thought, hmmm, Apogee is All Mine Now.  Alas, George lived
somehow.  The ski patrol said he should have died and that it was a miracle he
didn't slam into the dense trees on each side of the chute, which also curved
on the way down.  Anyway, this trip we skied down that chutes few times.  I
slipped once falling head first, slid about 20 feet and managed to stop
myself.  Let me tell you, the rest of the way down was a sphincter-tightened
experience.

Also had a bad accident cruising a warp speed down a back bowl, wiped out, and
the guy right behind me plowed into me at a similar speed flying head first
about 10 feet.  Amazingly, I didn't get hurt except for a small pain on my
right wrist, which I ignored for the rest of the day.  That night I noticed my
right hand glove had a huge slash in it, soaked with blood.  This, as you
might guess, caused me to examine my wrist, where on the underside I noticed a
bloody mess coagulated around a nasty gash.  Had I noticed it earlier I might
have gone for stitches, but oh well, too late by that time.

Can't wait to go skiing next year...

The Puzzle:  "Jackdaws love my big sphinx of quartz"

What is so special about the above quoted sentence (ignoring the fact that it
doesn't make much sense)?

========================================
March 27, 1998

I've gotten a very good response to my recent plans about gameplay and the old
days of the arcade industry, and I've been asked to continue with similar
updates.

First, so you know where I'm coming from, I started playing arcade games in
1976, at the age of 15, but it wasn't until Space Invaders came out that I
become a hopeless addict, spending my last quarter playing arcade games.  This
led to several jobs working at arcades in the early 80's, when the industry
was booming and there were arcades on every corner like there are McDonald's
today (this was the pre-Chicken McNugget's era).

I met my future Apogee partner, George Broussard, in high school in 1978,
where we both hung out in the computer room with a teletype time-share system,
and an Apple II.  We became friends and ended up working at the same arcades
in the early 80's.

George and I became top experts at many arcade games, and even entered several
tournaments.  In one of the biggest Dallas-area tournaments, George took first
place and I got second, out of over 100 competitors.

In those days a top players would often carry around a sheet of paper with
their best scores written down for all the games they were good at.  I've
still got my old papers somewhere.  We'd bump into other champion class
players and compare scores.  George and I would usually have the better
scores, so it occurred to us that we should start an official league of top
game players, and have an official high score database (too bad the Web wasn't
around back then--it would have made it easy for us to do this).

In '82, we formed the NVGPA (National Video Game Players Assoc.), and we were
writing a newsletter, but then the opportunity came for us to write a strategy
book on how to beat the top arcade games of the day, so we pursued that. too. 
We really thought the book was going to make us rich.  I remember running the
book's potential sale's figures though my mind:  In each of the top 250 cities
there must be a least an average of 10,000 game players, and if just 100 of
them bought our book that would be 25,000 sales, plus in all the remaining
cities we should count on at least 5 more books sold in each, which should add
another 25,000 sales.  And with each sale george and I get $1 each.  Wow,
that's more money than we can make in 5 real years of work--we'd be rich!

But in the six months it took us to write our book about 20 others came out,
and ours didn't make a dent.  I think less than 1000 sold, and that didn't
even cover the printing expenses.  We saw not a penny for our work.

However, I used the book to get a job as a weekly columnist at the Dallas
Morning News, where I wrote for four years about arcade, home video, and
computer games.  And this in turn opened the door to write about 100 articles
and reviews for the top national gaming magazines during the 80's, such as
COMPUTE!, one of the biggest general computing mags of it's time.

George and I, during the mid- and late-80's kept buying all the new computers
(IBM PC, PET, C-64, Amiga, etc) and we continued to code our own games, and
even sell them to small publishers, like Keypunch Software (run by the same
guy who nows runs WizardsWorks, a division of GT Interactive--small world!).

These early years taught us a lot about games, gameplay and gave us a good
"shit filter" about what ideas should make it into a game, and which
shouldn't.  I think of all those 1000's of dollars I spent on games back then
as tuition to video game college, which I'm now cashing in on.

That's a brief background check.  Soon, I'll write about the negative effects
that realistic graphics have had on the game industry.

Puzzle:  Duke and Lara were shooting their pistols at a target 250 yards away
(long, but challenging).  They each took 100 shots and, amazingly, each hit
the target 50 times.  After lunch they went back for some more practice:  Duke
took 50 more shots but only hit the target once, while Lara took 89 more shots
and hit the target 13 times.  Who had the better day hitting the target?

3D Portal (www.3dportal.com) has the answer.

========================================
March 26, 1998

The Codie Awards, an event by the Software Publisher's Association (SPA), has
given game awards a bad name yet another year.  You can check out their awards
at www.spa.org, but I recommend not wasting your time.  As a sampling, here
are the five games nominated for the "Best Arcade/Action Software Game"
category:

1. Disney's Hercules Action Game, Disney Interactive

2. Flight Unlimited II, Looking Glass Technologies

3. Machine Hunter, MGM Home Entertainment

4. Star Trek Starfleet Academy, Interplay Productions

5. Claw, Monolith Productions Inc.

Okay, let's look at this list closely.  I'm squinting pretty hard, but gosh, I
don't see Tomb Raider 2.  And come to think of it, I'm having trouble spotting
Jedi Knight.  Hey, and where's Quake 2?

Are we to believe that Machine Hunter (a game, btw, that MGM itself knows is
doggie poo poo, based on comments I've seen an MGM official make in a British
magazine) and Claw (a game that had a difficult time finding a publisher!) are
better than Jedi Knight and Quake 2?!?!  Also, is Claw, a platform game,
better that Abe's Oddyssy?  I don't think so!

Did I miss s