Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
May 4, 1998

Company Hype Warning!

Duke Nukem 3D is like the Energizer Bunny!  In the just-out March PC Data
report, Duke 3D is ranked as the 17th best selling game (ranked by units sold)
for the month.  This may not sound impressive, except when you consider that
well over 1000 games have been released since Duke 3D's release two long years
ago.  Also, games that were recently released, like Quake 2 (ranked at #10),
Tomb Raider 2 (#14) and Age of Empires (#11) are not ranked much higher on a
units sold basis.  For example, in March, Duke 3D sold 19,971 copies compared
to Tomb Raider 2's 21,479 copies.  Other notable games (much more recently
released than Duke) include Diablo (#35), Battlezone (#46), Quake (#110),
Ultima Online (#122), Sid Meier's Gettysburg (#176), Fallout (#190), and Dark
Reign (#327--tied with a Duke add-on pack, Nuclear Winter).  Two games I
noticed that weren't on the top 400 list are our own Shadow Warrior and Hexen 2.

(For clarity, the Duke Nukem 3D ranking does not include all the different
versions of Duke Nukem 3D, such as the Atomic Edition, the Kill-A-Ton
Collection and the many level packs, each of which are listed separately on
the PC Data chart.  Also, this list is a different ranking than those reported
on the PC Data web site and in game magazines, because those lists are based
on different criteria, and include bundled sku's and combined format sales.)

========================================
May 1, 1998

Resume Writing Tips for the Game Industry and Beyond:

I see maybe 150 resumes each year.  Most contain too much information and the
wrong emphasis on what's important.  In the past few months many people have
asked me to review their resume and offer tips, so I've written this "standard
reply" to use in the future, which I'll share here.

[1]  Don't exceed a page in length.  Not even Albert Einstein, Benjamin
Franklin or Thomas Edison have the credentials to exceed one page.  In fact,
the longer your resume, the more it looks like you're trying to hide the fact
that you don't have much going for you.  Short, concise resumes are those that
actually get read.

[2]  Include all forms of contact information, including address, phone, fax
and email.  Make yourself easy to reach.

[3]  The first section is titled "Objective."  Make this one or two sentences,
absolutely no more.  Do not write a me-oriented objective ("I'm looking for
position that exploits my design strengths, furthers my growth, and has real
opportunities for advancement.")  Instead, write a company oriented objective
that shows you're team and goal oriented ("I'm a team player looking to help
develop innovative games that achieve the company's vision and design goals.")
Short and sweet works best here.

[4]  Next, in bullet point form, list three to five highlights, each one
physical line long.  This is the area in which you really sell yourself! 
Readers typically look here first because it summarizes your achievements and
value.  Einstein, for example, might mention these things:

*  Wrote Special Theory of Relativity, disproving several of Newton's laws
*  Showed how mass and energy were equivalent (E=MC^2)
*  Received the Nobel Prize in 1921
*  Predicted existence of black holes 50 years before being detected
*  Involved with the creation of atomic bomb

[5]  After this, briefly mention your work history, but only as it pertains to
the job you're going after.  Don't mention unrelated positions that don't help
your cause.  Instead, say that you can provide an extensive work history upon
request.  Don't bother putting down that you flipped hamburgers or bagged
grociers (unless you're appying for a job in those industries).

[6]  In the education section, don't mention high school, only college and
other related training.  Once again, you can mention that a more complete
education history is available on request.

For programmers, do not list every language and operating system under the
sun, which makes you look like a jack of all trades but a master of none. 
You're much better off listing one or two languages as your "expertise," and
if you know more say you're also "familiar with the following languages." 
Another key point is that most companies and developers prefer to hire
specialists, not generalists, so try to position yourself as a graphics
specialist, 3D engine specialist, AI specialist, network/Internet specialist,
etc.

For artists, coders, musicians, etc., you might want to say that samples and
demos are available on request.

[7]  Regarding references, go ahead a list two or three, and if you have more
say they're available on request.

[8]  The last piece of the puzzle is often overlooked:  the cover letter. 
This is where you specifically mention why you want to work for the company,
and why you like the company.  This is a great place to brown nose a little by
specifically mentioning company products and what you like about the company's
vision, etc.  Prospective employers love to think you are applying to their
company because you have a passion for the company.  Keep this letter to one
page, don't be too wordy, and maintain professionalism.

Best of luck.

Puzzle: You have a recipe from a friend which involves baking for exactly 15
minutes, no more, no less.  However, you only have two hourglasses, one that
measures 7 minutes, and one that measures 11 minutes.  How do you use them to
time 15 minutes?  (This puzzle submitted by Dk1.)

========================================
April 24, 1998

*  Well, I had written a list of tips on writing resumes, but somehow deleted
it by mistake.  20 minutes effort down the digital drain.  Maybe next week
I'll redo it.  I get a lot of questions from people asking what's important in
a resume, so this was going to be used as a macro answer.

*  I saw the Duke shot that's going to get posted today, and funny thing is, I
don't think it's all that good.  For one, the shadowing doesn't seem finished. 
Maybe George is still trying to mislead the world by only showing the weaker
shots we have.  :)  If so, I like that tactic.

*  http://headline.gamespot.com/news/98_04/23_gizmo/index.html  

*  Looks like Starcraft is the new hot game being played around our offices.

*  Initial Prey music from KMFDM is easily exceeding expectations.  Maybe in a
few months Paul will post a few snippets, but right now it's too early because
nothing is completely polished yet.

*  Weekly puzzle (btw, please don't send me your answer--check
www.3dportal.com to check the solution):  Nice Nick, a salesman, was pitching
a revolutionary all-purpose cleaning fluid, 509.  Nick offers you one bottle
for $18, but then, upon seeing your interest slipping, offers you a two-bottle
deal for $31, saying his profit is the same either way.  If we can assume Nick
is telling the truth, what does each bottle of 509 cost him?

========================================
April 17, 1998

*  This week we saw a very impressive technology demo for the coming N64-only
Duke Nukem game.  This game was originally going to be titled Time to Kill
(like the Playstation version), but we're now thinking that making it a
different game is a better way to go, that way players with both Playstations
and N64s might buy both games--yes, we admit it:  money is law.  ;)

*  It seems that overwhelmingly people (who emailed me at least) agree with my
plan opinion yesterday about the name of Dominion:  Storm of Gift 3.  One
person wrote, "What if Starcraft was named "Starcraft:  Thunder over Carpet
5"?"  I've heard that "Storm over Gift 3" references a Larry Niven book, but
if only 1 in 200 people get the reference, who's the joke on?

I prefer simple, short names.  When a name is too long it ends up getting
abbreviated, and that's not good marketing for the game because you then have
two brands (the full name and the abbreviated version) that split the mind
share that a single brand would otherwise have.  I could go on for hours about
this subject, but instead I'll refer people to a great book on the subject: 
"Positioning:  The Battle for Your Mind" by Al Ries and Jack Trout.

By the way, anyone wanting to bash Apogee or 3D Realms game names in public,
feel free to do so.  We don't mind the criticism, and in most cases we'll
agree with you.  We have learned a lot in the past several years, and many of
our older games could have been named better.

*  Puzzle:  Two mothers and two daughters went fishing.  They ended up
catching on big fish, one small fish, and one dopefish (3 fish total).  Since
only three fish were caught, how is it possible that each women took home a
single fish?

========================================
April 16, 1998

*  No offense to Ion Storm and the talented people that I know work there, but
I have yet to talk to anyone (press, players, and developers) who think that
"Dominion:  Storm Over Gift 3" is a good game title.  Beyond this name being
meaningless to those who haven't played the game (a.k.a. potential customers),
this name suggests that it might involve Santa Clause getting snowed in on
Christmas Eve.  What was the thinking there!?  Was someone's sh!t filter
broken?  The Emperor has no clothes.  ;)

I'm probably going to take some heat for posting this, but I guarantee that
most people reading this are nodding their head in agreement.

And just to make it clear, I'm only talking about the game's name,
not the game itself.

And to be fair, Apogee has had a few stinkers, too, like Boppin' and
Halloween Harry (which we had enough sense rename, Alien Carnage, after which
the sales improved).

*  The most recent issue of Edge magazine claims that R-Type, a 1987 arcade
shooter (like our recently released Stargunner) is the best arcade game of all
time because of all of its innovations.  I agree R-Type was a masterpiece, but
Forgotten Worlds, released around the same time, was equally innovative, if
not more so.  Unfortunately, FW was not nearly as popular and is too often
overlooked.

*  Trivia question:  What was the first arcade game with faked 3D color
graphics (via scaling sprites)?  Hint:  I think this game was released in 1980
or earlier.

========================================
April 11, 1998

The May/June 1998 issue of PC Games (not PC Gamer) magazine has a column by
"Blade" entitled, "Quake-Killers Don't Exist."

There are a few points I disagree with in this column, but the one I'll
comment on here is the statement that Prey "loiters on the vaporware list." 
The writer failed to do due diligence before leaping to this conclusion.  If
he would have contacted us, he would have discovered that Prey was conceived
as a game with gigantic goals, to push most 3D shooter standards to new
heights.  This doesn't happen by making a game in 12 to 18 months, a typical
development period for PC games.  When you're striving for something truly
special, different and epic, it takes more time than an average or even above
average game.

We are not bothered that Prey is taking an extraordinary amount of time to be
developed.  Gamers should be encouraged that we're doing our best with this
game and diving into uncharted territories of gameplay and content.  On top of
everything else, we've never indicated when the game would be released, so how
can it be vaporware?  Does every game that takes over two years to create
automatically get on this writer's vaporware list?  Are the coming Star Wars
movies long overdue vaporfilm?  They may be, but I'll be first in line just
the same.

========================================
March 27, 1998

I've gotten a very good response to my recent plans about gameplay and the old
days of the arcade industry, and I've been asked to continue with similar
updates.

First, so you know where I'm coming from, I started playing arcade games in
1976, at the age of 15, but it wasn't until Space Invaders came out that I
become a hopeless addict, spending my last quarter playing arcade games.  This
led to several jobs working at arcades in the early 80's, when the industry
was booming and there were arcades on every corner like there are McDonald's
today (this was the pre-Chicken McNugget's era).

I met my future Apogee partner, George Broussard, in high school in 1978,
where we both hung out in the computer room with a teletype time-share system,
and an Apple II.  We became friends and ended up working at the same arcades
in the early 80's.

George and I became top experts at many arcade games, and even entered several
tournaments.  In one of the biggest Dallas-area tournaments, George took first
place and I got second, out of over 100 competitors.

In those days a top players would often carry around a sheet of paper with
their best scores written down for all the games they were good at.  I've
still got my old papers somewhere.  We'd bump into other champion class
players and compare scores.  George and I would usually have the better
scores, so it occurred to us that we should start an official league of top
game players, and have an official high score database (too bad the Web wasn't
around back then--it would have made it easy for us to do this).

In '82, we formed the NVGPA (National Video Game Players Assoc.), and we were
writing a newsletter, but then the opportunity came for us to write a strategy
book on how to beat the top arcade games of the day, so we pursued that. too. 
We really thought the book was going to make us rich.  