Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
June 1, 1998

Several people have commented that there was no single game at E3 that broke
the rules to such a degree that it stood out as something totally original and
compelling.

I think that in the future this will more often than not be the case.  As the
game industry matures, there are less opportunities for totally original
ideas.  That's why we're seeing so many games that are actually hybrids of
several genres, like Battlezone and Incoming (3D first person action and
strategy), most RTS games (3rd-person action and strategy), and Max Payne
(3rd-person 3D action and story-driven adventure).  There are many more
examples, and perhaps all games are hybrids to some degree.

The movie industry and novels rarely have anything totally original to offer
anymore, and the best releases in these industries are typically just
outstanding revisions of what have come before, maybe with a few new twists. 
This is how the computer game industry is becoming.

I think we'll still see original game ideas in the future, but most likely
these ideas will only be made possible by advancing technology, and a
developer realizing a new direction in gaming made possible by this more powerful
technology.  But for the most part advancing technology will only bring us
better, more fully realized versions of what we already have.

========================================
May 31, 1998

Post-E3 Rambling:

3D Realms kicked a lot of butt!  As a group, Max Payne, Prey and Duke Nukem
Forever might have been the best set of games coming from a single developer. 
From the web articles I've read so far it looks like many of the press are in
agreement.  Remedy Entertainment (developers of Max Payne), the Prey Team and
the DNF team all deserve the endless praise their games got at this year's
show.  One press guy even said the show should be renamed E3D Realms, but I'm
sure he was just kidding.  ;)

Can you tell I'm on cloud 9!

The final show day we had to keep turning press away who wanted to see Prey
and DNF in the back rooms (each room held 6-9 people, and each demo took about
10-15 minutes).  Apparently, these games had generated so much positive buzz
that dozens upon dozens of unscheduled press types wanted to get their turn in
the back rooms to see what all the talk was about.

For anyone who went to the show and only saw the floor demos, the Prey video
loop didn't show hardly anything compared to the incredible stuff shown in the
back room demo.  The DNF floor video showed about 50% of the cool stuff, but
some big surprises we're saved for the back room.  Max Payne's floor video
didn't contain much of the back room demo cool stuff either.

All three games are expected to come out in 1999, beginning with DNF, and most
probably Max will be last.  Next year should be nothing short of amazing for
us.

The Gathering of Developers booth was low key in design, but the games were
top-notch, with TRI's beautiful flight-sim FLY!, PopTop's highly-detailed
Railroad Tycoon 2, and Max Payne leading the way.

This was easily the best E3 for 3D Realms, and the previous three sure haven't
sucked for us!

Many other games I saw impressed me, but seeing that I just landed five hours
ago, and have already played a round of disc golf in 100+ degree humid
weather, I think I'll head home and think pleasant dreams rather than rambling
out of control any further...

========================================
May 26, 1998

25 of us are leaving for E3 tomorrow morning.  All on the same plane!

The back room demo of Prey is going to shake up expectations about 3D action
games, and it's still far from looking as good as it will when the game is
finished.

I'm also expecting people to be blown away by Duke Nukem Forever.  This game
is more like being in a pure action movie than any game I've seen or read
about.

Max Payne should get a great reaction at the Gathering's booth, too.

Everyone here dug deep to get these demos looking spectacular.  I'm proud of
this entire company.  I'm sure when we get back we'll have a lot to talk about
and some new screen shots, including a bunch from the show.

========================================
May 20, 1998

Drag racing is fun.  Next time I go I'm going to borrow my old Turbo 300ZX
from my mom, see what that puppy can do.  That thing has $15,000 worth of
after market stereo stuff added though, and all those extra speaker magnets
and amps ain't exactly good for racing times!

Thanks to Carmack for setting up these events, and I assume covering the not
unsubstantial costs involved for the track.  It's too bad George's pumped up
Porsche broke down on the first run, I was looking forward to some competitive
runs with him against the F-50.

The Duke Nukem Forever E3 demo came in today, all edited and with a new
rockful version of the Duke theme song.  My god it looks good.  People who see
this will simply not believe it's the Quake 2 engine.  And in fact, it's a
hyper-extended version of the Quake 2 engine.

The Talon Brave voice actor has been found, and yes he's the real thing
(Apache heritage).  I'll let Paul talk more about him and his background, but
the guy playing Talon has a background in TV and other media.

I've heard Godzilla is a big letdown, but then I'm not expecting much since
the movie is being done by the same lamers who did ID4 and Stargate, two
highly flawed and just plain dumb movies.  Probably go see it tonight
anyway--hopefully the popcorn will at least be warm, which would be a nice
surprise.

========================================
May 15, 1998

I saw the Prey non-interactive E3 floor demo yesterday.  Pretty snazzy.  There
are parts that I hadn't seen before that gave me chills.  What I'm really
excited about with Prey is not just the technology innovations, but the
content and the play experience this game will provide.  I have high hopes
this will be the most content rich, gameplay deep 3D shooter upon its release.

As good as this public demo is, the back room demo (for press only) will show
some of the true gems this games has to offer, along with Preditor, which is
undoubtedly one of the best, most simple 3D game editors ever created.

Really liked Deep Impact.  It's been a while since I've seen a fairly
intelligent world disaster movie.  Also, I like movies like this one in which
people sacrifice their life for the greater good.  Speaking of which, if
anyone has a tape of the HBO movie, By Dawn's Early Light, I'll gladly trade
any three games we make for a copy.

Puzzle:  What's a five-letter word (English language) whose pronunciation is
not changed by the removal of four of its letters.  (Check www.3dportal.com
for the answer.)

========================================
May 8, 1998

E3, the industry's biggest trade show, is fast approaching (May 28-30) and
every developer on the planet is undoubtedly rushing to make their games as
impressive as possible.

Frankly, for us much of the effort is a big waste of time.  Highly anticipated
games like Duke and Prey do not need the extra hype building attention
generated by an E3 showing.  This is one reason we don't bother with public
interactive demos, and instead only focus on meaningful back room demos.  I've
noticed that many other 3D shooter developers are doing a back room demo this
year, too, perhaps inspired by our success doing this with Prey last year.

I think for us the biggest positive of E3 is that it's a good milestone that
leads to a lot of progress on our games.  It's also a terrifically fun show to
attend.  The amount of money poured into this show could fund a sequel to
Titanic!

The next round of Duke action figures appear to be about ready.  Plus there
will be new versions of Duke Nukem, such as "Night Strike" Duke (wearing all
black).  I don't care if these things sell or not, as long as I get a box load
of them.  I think they're really cool!

Okay, this week's puzzle (check www.3dportal.com for the answer):

You have 100 bags of marbles (each bag labeled 1 thru 100), and each bag
containing 100 marbles.  Inside 99 of those bags, each marble weighs exactly
the same (i.e. 5 grams).  Inside the other bag, each of the 100 marbles weighs
a little bit less than all the marbles in the other 99 bags (i.e. 4.9 grams).

Given one chance using a very accurate weighing mechanism (not a scale with
two weighing trays), pick the one bag that contains the marbles that weight
less.

Hint:  You can some or all of the marbles out of any or all bags.  Also, you
can weigh any or all of the bags at once, but you only get one chance to use
the weighing platform.

This puzzle sent in by Matt Kittleson.  Thanks.

(BTW, I realize that Titanic can't have a sequel--that was the joke!)

========================================
May 1, 1998

Resume Writing Tips for the Game Industry and Beyond:

I see maybe 150 resumes each year.  Most contain too much information and the
wrong emphasis on what's important.  In the past few months many people have
asked me to review their resume and offer tips, so I've written this "standard
reply" to use in the future, which I'll share here.

[1]  Don't exceed a page in length.  Not even Albert Einstein, Benjamin
Franklin or Thomas Edison have the credentials to exceed one page.  In fact,
the longer your resume, the more it looks like you're trying to hide the fact
that you don't have much going for you.  Short, concise resumes are those that
actually get read.

[2]  Include all forms of contact information, including address, phone, fax
and email.  Make yourself easy to reach.

[3]  The first section is titled "Objective."  Make this one or two sentences,
absolutely no more.  Do not write a me-oriented objective ("I'm looking for
position that exploits my design strengths, furthers my growth, and has real
opportunities for advancement.")  Instead, write a company oriented objective
that shows you're team and goal oriented ("I'm a team player looking to help
develop innovative games that achieve the company's vision and design goals.")
Short and sweet works best here.

[4]  Next, in bullet point form, list three to five highlights, each one
physical line long.  This is the area in which you really sell yourself! 
Readers typically look here first because it summarizes your achievements and
value.  Einstein, for example, might mention these things:

*  Wrote Special Theory of Relativity, disproving several of Newton's laws
*  Showed how mass and energy were equivalent (E=MC^2)
*  Received the Nobel Prize in 1921
*  Predicted existence of black holes 50 years before being detected
*  Involved with the creation of atomic bomb

[5]  After this, briefly mention your work history, but only as it pertains to
the job you're going after.  Don't mention unrelated positions that don't help
your cause.  Instead, say that you can provide an extensive work history upon
request.  Don't bother putting down that you flipped hamburgers or bagged
grociers (unless you're appying for a job in those industries).

[6]  In the education section, don't mention high school, only college and
other related training.  Once again, you can mention that a more complete
education history is available on request.

For programmers, do not list every language and operating system under the
sun, which makes you look like a jack of all trades but a master of none. 
You're much better off listing one or two languages as your "expertise," and
if you know more say you're also "familiar with the following languages." 
Another key point is that most companies and developers prefer to hire
specialists, not generalists, so try to position yourself as a graphics
specialist, 3D engine specialist, AI specialist, network/Internet specialist,
etc.

For artists, coders, musicians, etc., you might want to say that samples and
demos are available on request.

[7]  Regarding references, go ahead a list two or three, and if you have more
say they're available on request.

[8]  The last piece of the puzzle is often overlooked:  the cover letter. 
This is where you specifically mention why you want to work for the company,
and why you like the company.  This is a great place to brown nose a little by
specifically mentioning company products and what you like about the company's
vision, etc.  Prospective employers love to think you are applying to their
company because you have a passion for the company.  Keep this letter to one
page, don't be too wordy, and maintain professionalism.

Best of luck.

Puzzle: You have a recipe from a friend which involves baking for exactly 15
minutes, no more, no less.  However, you only have two hourglasses, one that
measures 7 minutes, and one that measures 11 minutes.  How do you use them to
time 15 minutes?  (This puzzle submitted by Dk1.)

========================================
March 27, 1998

I've gotten a very good response to my recent plans about gameplay and the old
days of the arcade industry, and I've been asked to continue with similar
updates.

First, so you know where I'm coming from, I started playing arcade games in
1976, at the age of 15, but it wasn't until Space Invaders came out that I
become a hopeless addict, spending my last quarter playing arcade games.  This
led to several jobs working at arcades in the early 80's, when the industry
was booming and there were arcades on every corner like there are McDonald's
today (this was the pre