Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
June 22, 1998

Geoff Keighley, editor of GameSlice, wrote an interesting article on shareware games today:

http://www.gameslice.com/editorial/0622share.shtml

In it, he asks  "Why arenÂ’t there any new shareware companies or any exciting new shareware games being released?"

Having been involved in the shareware industry since 1986, often in key ways, I think I can answer this question.

Nowadays, it more often than not takes 10 to 20 person teams to make competitive games.  It used to be much different, and not all that long ago.  For example, in the early years of Apogee's existence, up until 1993, it was normal for a shareware development team to have only 3 to 5 developers, and in some cases these developers had day jobs, too.

The original Duke Nukem (a platform style game, technically superior to anything comparable), released in mid-1991, was created by two full-time developers (Todd Replogle and Allen Blum), plus a few people who contributed bits and pieces (including me--I designed all the levels in the shareware episode and did most of the game's sound effects).  This game sold 1500 copies a month for nearly a year, at $30 a pop, with no middleman retailer or publisher.  Apogee was grossing $45,000 a month on a game that took six months and maybe $20,000 total to make.  Todd made a significant portion of that.

Shareware in those days was a gold mine because there wasn't much competition, even from the retail market, where maybe 40 to 80 games were released a year--not the 1200+ that are released in recent years.

The stakes are so much higher now that the game industry is so competitive.  I can't see that any small, unfunded shareware team has much of a chance unless that team breaks into a new area or opens up a new genre.  Even Wolfenstein 3-D needed heavy funding from Apogee to get done.  id Software had to be guaranteed a significant five-figure advance before they agreed to do the game.  In hindsight that advance was insignificant, considering what the game made for both companies!

Lots of people think Wolfenstein 3-D came out of nowhere to blow away the industry, but that was not the case.  By that time id was a professionally run company with several successful Commander Keen games behind them, and they had an incredible work ethic from their days working in the sweat shop known as Softdisk, cranking out a quality game a month (one of those games being the precursor to Wolfenstein 3-D, a 3D EGA title, Catacombs 3-D.)

Geoff asks, "Shareware, where are you?"  The answer is not that shareware has changed, the answer is that the entire game industry has become hyper-competitive, and this makes it very tough for small, unfunded teams to surprise the world with something that stands out.  It's sad, but it's the price of progress.

========================================
June 19, 1998 (X-Day!)

There's a good article at Planetquake covering our back room E3 demo of Duke
Nukem Forever (DNF), with several good quotes from George Broussard, project
lead on the game.

http://www.planetquake.com/interviews/gb1.shtm

There should be no concern that DNF, now being built upon the Unreal
technology, will lack the action and gameplay seen at E3 when the game was
based on the Quake technology.  In fact, the Unreal tech is better suited for
these effects and we should be able to do them on a grander scale.  People who
saw this demo know we pushed the Quake 2 engine well beyond its intended
specs, and we'll do the same with the Unreal tech.

My thanks to Terminal Reality for throwing a cool free food, fun and drinks
party (celebrating the release of Monster Truck Madness 2) at GameWorks, the
best arcade in the Dallas area.  What I love at GameWorks is that they have
many older games (Frogger, Asteroids, Pac Mac, Centipede, etc.) refurbished in
nice new cabinets with huge monitors.  Many of the developers associated with
the Gathering of Developers were there, which includes half of the Dallas
gaming community, I think.

Puzzle:  If a brick weighs eight pounds plus half a brick, what is the weight
of a brick and a half?

========================================
June 4, 1998

Online Gaming Review (www.ogr.com) just published their list of 25 best PC
games their editors saw at E3 (among 100's and 100's of PC game on display). 
Incredibly, all three of our games (Max Payne, Prey, Duke Nukem Forever) made
their list.

Prey also picked up a special honor for Most Promising First Person Shooter
("This is one of those games that makes even jaded game editors' jaws drop"). 
Max Payne, too, picked up a special honor:  Most Promising Action Game ("If
John Woo were to make a game, this would be it").

If anyone cares to check out these articles, here are the URLs:

Special Awards for Prey and Max Payne:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/e3awards.html

Max Payne:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/max_payne.html

Duke Nukem Forever:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/duke4.html

Prey:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/prey.html

For Prey, especially, it's nice to see it get recognized so strongly.  That's
because it made its E3 debut last year and earned several similar honors, and
this year it could have easily been old news.  However, the technology and
design innovations (including gameplay innovation, most of which the press and
public have not been shown) keeps progressing at a rapid pace and is keeping
Prey ahead of the pack.  You can be sure this progress will continue until the
day Prey's released.

Here's the puzzle, one day early:  Duke needs a pair of matching socks before
going to kick some alien butt.  It's nighttime and his house power has been
cut off.  His sock drawer has ten white socks (separated) and ten black socks
(separated).  How many socks does he need to pull out in order to make sure he
has a matching set to wear?

========================================
June 1, 1998

Several people have commented that there was no single game at E3 that broke
the rules to such a degree that it stood out as something totally original and
compelling.

I think that in the future this will more often than not be the case.  As the
game industry matures, there are less opportunities for totally original
ideas.  That's why we're seeing so many games that are actually hybrids of
several genres, like Battlezone and Incoming (3D first person action and
strategy), most RTS games (3rd-person action and strategy), and Max Payne
(3rd-person 3D action and story-driven adventure).  There are many more
examples, and perhaps all games are hybrids to some degree.

The movie industry and novels rarely have anything totally original to offer
anymore, and the best releases in these industries are typically just
outstanding revisions of what have come before, maybe with a few new twists. 
This is how the computer game industry is becoming.

I think we'll still see original game ideas in the future, but most likely
these ideas will only be made possible by advancing technology, and a
developer realizing a new direction in gaming made possible by this more powerful
technology.  But for the most part advancing technology will only bring us
better, more fully realized versions of what we already have.

========================================
May 1, 1998

Resume Writing Tips for the Game Industry and Beyond:

I see maybe 150 resumes each year.  Most contain too much information and the
wrong emphasis on what's important.  In the past few months many people have
asked me to review their resume and offer tips, so I've written this "standard
reply" to use in the future, which I'll share here.

[1]  Don't exceed a page in length.  Not even Albert Einstein, Benjamin
Franklin or Thomas Edison have the credentials to exceed one page.  In fact,
the longer your resume, the more it looks like you're trying to hide the fact
that you don't have much going for you.  Short, concise resumes are those that
actually get read.

[2]  Include all forms of contact information, including address, phone, fax
and email.  Make yourself easy to reach.

[3]  The first section is titled "Objective."  Make this one or two sentences,
absolutely no more.  Do not write a me-oriented objective ("I'm looking for
position that exploits my design strengths, furthers my growth, and has real
opportunities for advancement.")  Instead, write a company oriented objective
that shows you're team and goal oriented ("I'm a team player looking to help
develop innovative games that achieve the company's vision and design goals.")
Short and sweet works best here.

[4]  Next, in bullet point form, list three to five highlights, each one
physical line long.  This is the area in which you really sell yourself! 
Readers typically look here first because it summarizes your achievements and
value.  Einstein, for example, might mention these things:

*  Wrote Special Theory of Relativity, disproving several of Newton's laws
*  Showed how mass and energy were equivalent (E=MC^2)
*  Received the Nobel Prize in 1921
*  Predicted existence of black holes 50 years before being detected
*  Involved with the creation of atomic bomb

[5]  After this, briefly mention your work history, but only as it pertains to
the job you're going after.  Don't mention unrelated positions that don't help
your cause.  Instead, say that you can provide an extensive work history upon
request.  Don't bother putting down that you flipped hamburgers or bagged
grociers (unless you're appying for a job in those industries).

[6]  In the education section, don't mention high school, only college and
other related training.  Once again, you can mention that a more complete
education history is available on request.

For programmers, do not list every language and operating system under the
sun, which makes you look like a jack of all trades but a master of none. 
You're much better off listing one or two languages as your "expertise," and
if you know more say you're also "familiar with the following languages." 
Another key point is that most companies and developers prefer to hire
specialists, not generalists, so try to position yourself as a graphics
specialist, 3D engine specialist, AI specialist, network/Internet specialist,
etc.

For artists, coders, musicians, etc., you might want to say that samples and
demos are available on request.

[7]  Regarding references, go ahead a list two or three, and if you have more
say they're available on request.

[8]  The last piece of the puzzle is often overlooked:  the cover letter. 
This is where you specifically mention why you want to work for the company,
and why you like the company.  This is a great place to brown nose a little by
specifically mentioning company products and what you like about the company's
vision, etc.  Prospective employers love to think you are applying to their
company because you have a passion for the company.  Keep this letter to one
page, don't be too wordy, and maintain professionalism.

Best of luck.

Puzzle: You have a recipe from a friend which involves baking for exactly 15
minutes, no more, no less.  However, you only have two hourglasses, one that
measures 7 minutes, and one that measures 11 minutes.  How do you use them to
time 15 minutes?  (This puzzle submitted by Dk1.)

========================================
March 27, 1998

I've gotten a very good response to my recent plans about gameplay and the old
days of the arcade industry, and I've been asked to continue with similar
updates.

First, so you know where I'm coming from, I started playing arcade games in
1976, at the age of 15, but it wasn't until Space Invaders came out that I
become a hopeless addict, spending my last quarter playing arcade games.  This
led to several jobs working at arcades in the early 80's, when the industry
was booming and there were arcades on every corner like there are McDonald's
today (this was the pre-Chicken McNugget's era).

I met my future Apogee partner, George Broussard, in high school in 1978,
where we both hung out in the computer room with a teletype time-share system,
and an Apple II.  We became friends and ended up working at the same arcades
in the early 80's.

George and I became top experts at many arcade games, and even entered several
tournaments.  In one of the biggest Dallas-area tournaments, George took first
place and I got second, out of over 100 competitors.

In those days a top players would often carry around a sheet of paper with
their best scores written down for all the games they were good at.  I've
still got my old papers somewhere.  We'd bump into other champion class
players and compare scores.  George and I would usually have the better
scores, so it occurred to us that we should start an official league of top
game players, and have an official high score database (too bad the Web wasn't
around back then--it would have made it easy for us to do this).

In '82, we formed the NVGPA (National Video Game Players Assoc.), and we were
writing a newsletter, but then the opportunity came for us to write a strategy
book on how to beat the top arcade games of the day, so we pursued that. too. 
We really thought the book was going to make us rich.  I remember running the
book's potential sale's figures though my mind:  In each of the top 250 cities
there must be a least an average of 10,000 game players, and if just 100 of
them bought our book that would be 25,000 sales, plus in all the remaining
cities we should count on at least 5 more books