Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
July 8, 1998

A few people have reminded me that many months ago I said that I'd write about
the negative effects that realistic and improved graphics have had on the game
industry.  I guess it's time to pontificate.  Who knows, I might even have a
valid point or two--sometimes I get lucky that way.

Let's get this straight:  Everyone loves the improved graphics we're seeing in
today's games.  The key problem is that too often developers focus on graphics
and lose focus gameplay issues.

This is why most FMV (full motion video) games fell flat on their pompous
faces.  This is why the convergence of Hollywood and Silicon Valley won't
revolutionize the game industry.  This is why Rocket Science never had a
chance.

Spin the date dial back to the late 70's and early 80's, when graphics were
1-bit, we're talking black and white, but included masterworks like Asteroids,
Space Invaders, Space War, Battlezone, and Pong.  Other 1-bit games used
colored plastic overlays on the monitor itself, like Star Castle, Armor
Attack, and Warlords, and on some machines those overlays even lined up
correctly.

But you know what, as unrealistic as those graphics were, those games were
addictively fun.  Later games like Pac Man, Galaxian, Missile Command,
Tempest, Defender, and Centipede graduated to 2-bit (4 color), and even 4-bit
(16 color) graphics.  But still, the graphics weren't the selling point--it
was still the balanced, polished gameplay.  Designers back then for the most
part designed their games with gameplay in mind first, and the graphics were
simply a medium to bring their game to life.  Look how these older games have
been fondly remembered over the years.  There's a single, solid reason for
that:  Gameplay.

Nowadays, with graphics standards escalating on nearly a monthly basis, it's
tough for developers to focus long and hard on the juicy meat of game design. 
Imagine what the game chess might be like if the game designers had focused
too much attention on the quality of the wooden or stone pieces, and the
detail and shape of the pieces (polygon count?).  I can't imagine that these
were important considerations when the game of chess evolved, meaning chess'
gameplay (game rules and the interaction of the pieces) mattered most and
could be polished without competing distractions.

However, game players like to see something that looks better than they've
seen before.  That's what puts the pressure on developers to focus on better
graphics, and that deducts time from gameplay balance and polishing.

Perhaps the real enemy of gameplay is advancing technology, such as faster
CPUs and new 3D accelerated cards.  If we could freeze hardware technology for
five years, then all developers could stop competing so hard on the graphics
front and once again give due attention to gameplay concerns.  We might even
have more time to think of a few more original games, since we wouldn't have
the crutch of just doing what's been done before but with a better graphics
engine.

I think gameplay is the victim of advancing technology, which favors
advancements in graphics over advancements in game design.  It's a rare
development team that can overcome the seduction of advancing technology and
give gameplay issues proper focus.  Every developers' first step in this
direction is to be aware of the problem...

========================================
July 1, 1998

I just read Geoff Keighley's editorial piece
(http://www.gameslice.com/editorial/0701inside.shtml) about gaming gossip
sites, such as GamingInsider.  While I like reading these sites, I wish they'd
employ something close to a journalistic standard.  Much of the stuff posted
regarding Apogee has been far from correct.  This makes me wonder how much is
correct regarding the other companies that are mentioned.

The downside with these sites is that they can print whatever rumor comes
their way, without any need for verification, and without much of a penalty if
the rumor is wrong.  The upside is that they're fun to read, and I'm sure hit
close to the truth quite often.  But they should be read with the full
understanding that what's being written is usually unsubstantiated, possibly
opinionated, and often flat wrong.

========================================
June 22, 1998

Geoff Keighley, editor of GameSlice, wrote an interesting article on shareware
games today:

http://www.gameslice.com/editorial/0622share.shtml

In it, he asks  "Why arenÂ’t there any new shareware companies or any exciting
new shareware games being released?"

Having been involved in the shareware industry since 1986, often in key ways,
I think I can answer this question.

Nowadays, it more often than not takes 10 to 20 person teams to make
competitive games.  It used to be much different, and not all that long ago. 
For example, in the early years of Apogee's existence, up until 1993, it was
normal for a shareware development team to have only 3 to 5 developers, and in
some cases these developers had day jobs, too.

The original Duke Nukem (a platform style game, technically superior to
anything comparable), released in mid-1991, was created by two full-time
developers (Todd Replogle and Allen Blum), plus a few people who contributed
bits and pieces (including me--I designed all the levels in the shareware
episode and did most of the game's sound effects).  This game sold 1500 copies
a month for nearly a year, at $30 a pop, with no middleman retailer or
publisher.  Apogee was grossing $45,000 a month on a game that took six months
and maybe $20,000 total to make.  Todd made a significant portion of that.

Shareware in those days was a gold mine because there wasn't much competition,
even from the retail market, where maybe 40 to 80 games were released a
year--not the 1200+ that are released in recent years.

The stakes are so much higher now that the game industry is so competitive.  I
can't see that any small, unfunded shareware team has much of a chance unless
that team breaks into a new area or opens up a new genre.  Even Wolfenstein
3-D needed heavy funding from Apogee to get done.  id Software had to be
guaranteed a significant five-figure advance before they agreed to do the
game.  In hindsight that advance was insignificant, considering what the game
made for both companies!

Lots of people think Wolfenstein 3-D came out of nowhere to blow away the
industry, but that was not the case.  By that time id was a professionally run
company with several successful Commander Keen games behind them, and they had
an incredible work ethic from their days working in the sweat shop known as
Softdisk, cranking out a quality game a month (one of those games being the
precursor to Wolfenstein 3-D, a 3D EGA title, Catacombs 3-D.)

Geoff asks, "Shareware, where are you?"  The answer is not that shareware has
changed, the answer is that the entire game industry has become
hyper-competitive, and this makes it very tough for small, unfunded teams to
surprise the world with something that stands out.  It's sad, but it's the
price of progress.

========================================
June 19, 1998 (X-Day!)

There's a good article at Planetquake covering our back room E3 demo of Duke
Nukem Forever (DNF), with several good quotes from George Broussard, project
lead on the game.

http://www.planetquake.com/interviews/gb1.shtm

There should be no concern that DNF, now being built upon the Unreal
technology, will lack the action and gameplay seen at E3 when the game was
based on the Quake technology.  In fact, the Unreal tech is better suited for
these effects and we should be able to do them on a grander scale.  People who
saw this demo know we pushed the Quake 2 engine well beyond its intended
specs, and we'll do the same with the Unreal tech.

My thanks to Terminal Reality for throwing a cool free food, fun and drinks
party (celebrating the release of Monster Truck Madness 2) at GameWorks, the
best arcade in the Dallas area.  What I love at GameWorks is that they have
many older games (Frogger, Asteroids, Pac Mac, Centipede, etc.) refurbished in
nice new cabinets with huge monitors.  Many of the developers associated with
the Gathering of Developers were there, which includes half of the Dallas
gaming community, I think.

Puzzle:  If a brick weighs eight pounds plus half a brick, what is the weight
of a brick and a half?

========================================
June 4, 1998

Online Gaming Review (www.ogr.com) just published their list of 25 best PC
games their editors saw at E3 (among 100's and 100's of PC game on display). 
Incredibly, all three of our games (Max Payne, Prey, Duke Nukem Forever) made
their list.

Prey also picked up a special honor for Most Promising First Person Shooter
("This is one of those games that makes even jaded game editors' jaws drop"). 
Max Payne, too, picked up a special honor:  Most Promising Action Game ("If
John Woo were to make a game, this would be it").

If anyone cares to check out these articles, here are the URLs:

Special Awards for Prey and Max Payne:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/e3awards.html

Max Payne:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/max_payne.html

Duke Nukem Forever:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/duke4.html

Prey:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/prey.html

For Prey, especially, it's nice to see it get recognized so strongly.  That's
because it made its E3 debut last year and earned several similar honors, and
this year it could have easily been old news.  However, the technology and
design innovations (including gameplay innovation, most of which the press and
public have not been shown) keeps progressing at a rapid pace and is keeping
Prey ahead of the pack.  You can be sure this progress will continue until the
day Prey's released.

Here's the puzzle, one day early:  Duke needs a pair of matching socks before
going to kick some alien butt.  It's nighttime and his house power has been
cut off.  His sock drawer has ten white socks (separated) and ten black socks
(separated).  How many socks does he need to pull out in order to make sure he
has a matching set to wear?

========================================
June 1, 1998

Several people have commented that there was no single game at E3 that broke
the rules to such a degree that it stood out as something totally original and
compelling.

I think that in the future this will more often than not be the case.  As the
game industry matures, there are less opportunities for totally original
ideas.  That's why we're seeing so many games that are actually hybrids of
several genres, like Battlezone and Incoming (3D first person action and
strategy), most RTS games (3rd-person action and strategy), and Max Payne
(3rd-person 3D action and story-driven adventure).  There are many more
examples, and perhaps all games are hybrids to some degree.

The movie industry and novels rarely have anything totally original to offer
anymore, and the best releases in these industries are typically just
outstanding revisions of what have come before, maybe with a few new twists. 
This is how the computer game industry is becoming.

I think we'll still see original game ideas in the future, but most likely
these ideas will only be made possible by advancing technology, and a
developer realizing a new direction in gaming made possible by this more powerful
technology.  But for the most part advancing technology will only bring us
better, more fully realized versions of what we already have.

========================================
May 1, 1998

Resume Writing Tips for the Game Industry and Beyond:

I see maybe 150 resumes each year.  Most contain too much information and the
wrong emphasis on what's important.  In the past few months many people have
asked me to review their resume and offer tips, so I've written this "standard
reply" to use in the future, which I'll share here.

[1]  Don't exceed a page in length.  Not even Albert Einstein, Benjamin
Franklin or Thomas Edison have the credentials to exceed one page.  In fact,
the longer your resume, the more it looks like you're trying to hide the fact
that you don't have much going for you.  Short, concise resumes are those that
actually get read.

[2]  Include all forms of contact information, including address, phone, fax
and email.  Make yourself easy to reach.

[3]  The first section is titled "Objective."  Make this one or two sentences,
absolutely no more.  Do not write a me-oriented objective ("I'm looking for
position that exploits my design strengths, furthers my growth, and has real
opportunities for advancement.")  Instead, write a company oriented objective
that shows you're team and goal oriented ("I'm a team player looking to help
develop innovative games that achieve the company's vision and design goals.")
Short and sweet works best here.

[4]  Next, in bullet point form, list three to five highlights, each one
physical line long.  This is the area in which you really sell yourself! 
Readers typically look here first because it summarizes your achievements and
value.  Einstein, for example, might mention these things:

*  Wrote Special Theory of Relativity, disproving several of Newton's laws
*  Showed how mass and energy were equivalent (E=MC^2)
*  Received the Nobel Prize in 1921
*  Predicted existence of black holes 50 years before being detected
*  Involved with the creation of atomic bomb
<br