Account Name:  Scott Miller
Email address: scottm@3drealms.com
----------
========================================
July 20, 1998

News Bulletin:  Melbourne House Beware!

Yikes!, Melbourne House (makers of KKND and KKND2 for EA) also has a logo with
an eyeball:  http://www.melbournehouse.com/.  I can't believe they would so
blatantly copy the LucasArts logo!  Don't they know that the prominence of
LucasArts in the computer industry means that anyone with an eye in their logo
MUST be copying the creative geniuses at LucasArts and their brilliant logo.
Apparently, LucasArts owns the eyeball idea, and they're ready to "socket" to
anyone else who's similarly brilliant.

Watch out guys, expect LucasArts to send Darth Vader your way!

Unfortunately for us developers, the Farce is among us.

========================================
July 17, 1998

News Bulletin:  Developers Beware!

It seems the attorneys at LucasArts think that the Remedy Entertainment
company logo (can be viewed here: http://www.maxpayne.com/) is too similar to
the LucasArts logo.

FYI, Remedy Entertainment is working with 3D Realms to develop the PC game Max
Payne, which recently garnered a great deal of positive feedback from the
recent showing at the Gathering of Developers' E3 booth.

A letter (dated July 9) from LucasArts' attorney, John Sullivan, of Fenwick
and West LLP, claimed:  "The Remedy Entertainment logo so closely resembles
the top portion of the LucasArts logo, which, like the Remedy Entertainment
logo, forms an eye, that, considering LucasArts' prominence in the computer
game industry, it is hard to believe that the Remedy Entertainment logo was
not copied from the LucasArts logo."

It's true that both logos have an eye, but beyond that aspect they are
entirely different.  I can assure all that Remedy did not purposely
incorporate an eye in their logo to copy the LucasArts logo--the fine artists
at Remedy are a little more creative than that!  I'd say that the only people
who are confused by these two logos are none other than LucasArts' attorneys. 
I'll bet the rest of the gaming community has no trouble telling them apart.

Mr. Sullivan than asks Remedy to stop using the logo:  "Accordingly, we ask
that you conform no later than July 17, 1998 that plans to use the Remedy
Entertainment logo have been abandoned and that another logo, which does not
resemble the LucasArts logo, will be used instead."

Remedy has decided to change their logo ASAP, but not all due to legal
pressure from LucasArts.  Previous to this legal threat from LucasArts, Remedy
had concluded that their logo looks like utter crap, and they had been working
on a new design that better incorporates their company's name (much like the
Apogee and 3D Realms' logos do), which should be ready in a few weeks.

I'm quite bothered by this tough stance taken by LucasArts, and I just want to
warn other developers not to include an eye in their logo!  May the Force
leave you alone...  ; )

Next Generation also wrote about this story: 
http://www.next-generation.com/jsmid/news/3971.html

========================================
July 8, 1998

A few people have reminded me that many months ago I said that I'd write about
the negative effects that realistic and improved graphics have had on the game
industry.  I guess it's time to pontificate.  Who knows, I might even have a
valid point or two--sometimes I get lucky that way.

Let's get this straight:  Everyone loves the improved graphics we're seeing in
today's games.  The key problem is that too often developers focus on graphics
and lose focus gameplay issues.

This is why most FMV (full motion video) games fell flat on their pompous
faces.  This is why the convergence of Hollywood and Silicon Valley won't
revolutionize the game industry.  This is why Rocket Science never had a
chance.

Spin the date dial back to the late 70's and early 80's, when graphics were
1-bit, we're talking black and white, but included masterworks like Asteroids,
Space Invaders, Space War, Battlezone, and Pong.  Other 1-bit games used
colored plastic overlays on the monitor itself, like Star Castle, Armor
Attack, and Warlords, and on some machines those overlays even lined up
correctly.

But you know what, as unrealistic as those graphics were, those games were
addictively fun.  Later games like Pac Man, Galaxian, Missile Command,
Tempest, Defender, and Centipede graduated to 2-bit (4 color), and even 4-bit
(16 color) graphics.  But still, the graphics weren't the selling point--it
was still the balanced, polished gameplay.  Designers back then for the most
part designed their games with gameplay in mind first, and the graphics were
simply a medium to bring their game to life.  Look how these older games have
been fondly remembered over the years.  There's a single, solid reason for
that:  Gameplay.

Nowadays, with graphics standards escalating on nearly a monthly basis, it's
tough for developers to focus long and hard on the juicy meat of game design. 
Imagine what the game chess might be like if the game designers had focused
too much attention on the quality of the wooden or stone pieces, and the
detail and shape of the pieces (polygon count?).  I can't imagine that these
were important considerations when the game of chess evolved, meaning chess'
gameplay (game rules and the interaction of the pieces) mattered most and
could be polished without competing distractions.

However, game players like to see something that looks better than they've
seen before.  That's what puts the pressure on developers to focus on better
graphics, and that deducts time from gameplay balance and polishing.

Perhaps the real enemy of gameplay is advancing technology, such as faster
CPUs and new 3D accelerated cards.  If we could freeze hardware technology for
five years, then all developers could stop competing so hard on the graphics
front and once again give due attention to gameplay concerns.  We might even
have more time to think of a few more original games, since we wouldn't have
the crutch of just doing what's been done before but with a better graphics
engine.

I think gameplay is the victim of advancing technology, which favors
advancements in graphics over advancements in game design.  It's a rare
development team that can overcome the seduction of advancing technology and
give gameplay issues proper focus.  Every developers' first step in this
direction is to be aware of the problem...

========================================
July 1, 1998

I just read Geoff Keighley's editorial piece
(http://www.gameslice.com/editorial/0701inside.shtml) about gaming gossip
sites, such as GamingInsider.  While I like reading these sites, I wish they'd
employ something close to a journalistic standard.  Much of the stuff posted
regarding Apogee has been far from correct.  This makes me wonder how much is
correct regarding the other companies that are mentioned.

The downside with these sites is that they can print whatever rumor comes
their way, without any need for verification, and without much of a penalty if
the rumor is wrong.  The upside is that they're fun to read, and I'm sure hit
close to the truth quite often.  But they should be read with the full
understanding that what's being written is usually unsubstantiated, possibly
opinionated, and often flat wrong.

========================================
June 22, 1998

Geoff Keighley, editor of GameSlice, wrote an interesting article on shareware
games today:

http://www.gameslice.com/editorial/0622share.shtml

In it, he asks  "Why arenÂ’t there any new shareware companies or any exciting
new shareware games being released?"

Having been involved in the shareware industry since 1986, often in key ways,
I think I can answer this question.

Nowadays, it more often than not takes 10 to 20 person teams to make
competitive games.  It used to be much different, and not all that long ago. 
For example, in the early years of Apogee's existence, up until 1993, it was
normal for a shareware development team to have only 3 to 5 developers, and in
some cases these developers had day jobs, too.

The original Duke Nukem (a platform style game, technically superior to
anything comparable), released in mid-1991, was created by two full-time
developers (Todd Replogle and Allen Blum), plus a few people who contributed
bits and pieces (including me--I designed all the levels in the shareware
episode and did most of the game's sound effects).  This game sold 1500 copies
a month for nearly a year, at $30 a pop, with no middleman retailer or
publisher.  Apogee was grossing $45,000 a month on a game that took six months
and maybe $20,000 total to make.  Todd made a significant portion of that.

Shareware in those days was a gold mine because there wasn't much competition,
even from the retail market, where maybe 40 to 80 games were released a
year--not the 1200+ that are released in recent years.

The stakes are so much higher now that the game industry is so competitive.  I
can't see that any small, unfunded shareware team has much of a chance unless
that team breaks into a new area or opens up a new genre.  Even Wolfenstein
3-D needed heavy funding from Apogee to get done.  id Software had to be
guaranteed a significant five-figure advance before they agreed to do the
game.  In hindsight that advance was insignificant, considering what the game
made for both companies!

Lots of people think Wolfenstein 3-D came out of nowhere to blow away the
industry, but that was not the case.  By that time id was a professionally run
company with several successful Commander Keen games behind them, and they had
an incredible work ethic from their days working in the sweat shop known as
Softdisk, cranking out a quality game a month (one of those games being the
precursor to Wolfenstein 3-D, a 3D EGA title, Catacombs 3-D.)

Geoff asks, "Shareware, where are you?"  The answer is not that shareware has
changed, the answer is that the entire game industry has become
hyper-competitive, and this makes it very tough for small, unfunded teams to
surprise the world with something that stands out.  It's sad, but it's the
price of progress.

========================================
June 19, 1998 (X-Day!)

There's a good article at Planetquake covering our back room E3 demo of Duke
Nukem Forever (DNF), with several good quotes from George Broussard, project
lead on the game.

http://www.planetquake.com/interviews/gb1.shtm

There should be no concern that DNF, now being built upon the Unreal
technology, will lack the action and gameplay seen at E3 when the game was
based on the Quake technology.  In fact, the Unreal tech is better suited for
these effects and we should be able to do them on a grander scale.  People who
saw this demo know we pushed the Quake 2 engine well beyond its intended
specs, and we'll do the same with the Unreal tech.

My thanks to Terminal Reality for throwing a cool free food, fun and drinks
party (celebrating the release of Monster Truck Madness 2) at GameWorks, the
best arcade in the Dallas area.  What I love at GameWorks is that they have
many older games (Frogger, Asteroids, Pac Mac, Centipede, etc.) refurbished in
nice new cabinets with huge monitors.  Many of the developers associated with
the Gathering of Developers were there, which includes half of the Dallas
gaming community, I think.

Puzzle:  If a brick weighs eight pounds plus half a brick, what is the weight
of a brick and a half?

========================================
June 4, 1998

Online Gaming Review (www.ogr.com) just published their list of 25 best PC
games their editors saw at E3 (among 100's and 100's of PC game on display). 
Incredibly, all three of our games (Max Payne, Prey, Duke Nukem Forever) made
their list.

Prey also picked up a special honor for Most Promising First Person Shooter
("This is one of those games that makes even jaded game editors' jaws drop"). 
Max Payne, too, picked up a special honor:  Most Promising Action Game ("If
John Woo were to make a game, this would be it").

If anyone cares to check out these articles, here are the URLs:

Special Awards for Prey and Max Payne:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/e3awards.html

Max Payne:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/max_payne.html

Duke Nukem Forever:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/duke4.html

Prey:
http://www.ogr.com/specials/bestofe3/prey.html

For Prey, especially, it's nice to see it get recognized so strongly.  That's
because it made its E3 debut last year and earned several similar honors, and
this year it could have easily been old news.  However, the technology and
design innovations (including gameplay innovation, most of which the press and
public have not been shown) keeps progressing at a rapid pace and is keeping
Prey ahead of the pack.  You can be sure this progress will continue until the
day Prey's released.

Here's the puzzle, one day early:  Duke needs a pair of matching socks before
going to kick some alien butt.  It's nighttime and his house power has been
cut off.  His sock drawer has ten white socks (separated) and ten black socks
(separated).  How many socks does he need to pull out in order to make sure he
has a matching set to wear?

========================================
June 1, 1998

Several people have commented that there was no single game at E3 that broke
the rules to such a degree that it stood out as something totally original and
compelling.

I think that in the future this will mo